Document Type Policy
Organization Human Resources
Subcategory HR General
Geographic Scope India

Title Prevention of Sexual Harassment Policy
Applies To This document applies to all employees, applicants for employment, interns, vendors ,
contractors, trainees and any persons conducting business with 3M India Limited, 3M
Electro & Communication India Private Limited, 3M South Asia Manufacturing Private
Limited (collectively "3M")
Introduction and
Background or
Purpose
This Policy helps to ensure that all people are treated with dignity and respect in the 3M
workplace. It also reinforces 3M's commitment to compliance with the Sexual Harassment
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (“SHWW Act”)
which prohibits sexual harassment at workplace.
This Policy is supplemental and should be read with and applies in conjunction with 3M's
Code of Conduct- Respectful Workplace Principle. In case of any conflict in the policies,
this Policy shall prevail insofar as sexual harassment of women at workplace is concerned.
The purpose of this document is:
To define sexual harassment at the workplace
To set out effective measures to prevent, report, & address any complaints of
sexual harassment at the workplace, inquire into and if necessary, to take
corrective actions including but not limited to termination for any sexual
harassment at the workplace.
To establish Internal Committees (IC) across 3M's India locations to provide an
effective redressal mechanism to aggrieved persons facing sexual harassment at
3M in India.
3M reserves right to amend, abrogate, modify, and / or rescind this document or any part
of it at any time subject to the provisions of the SHWW Act.
Requirements
or Expectations
Overall responsibility for compliance with this document is assigned to 3M Internal
Committee, 3M supervisors/managers/employees and 3M Human Resources.
Everyone is entitled to respectful treatment in the 3M workplace. Being respected means
being treated honestly and professionally, with each person's unique talents, background,
and perspectives valued. A respectful workplace is free from unlawful sexual harassment
which is strictly prohibited by this Policy. A respectful workplace involves more than
compliance with the law. I t is a work environment that is free of inappropriate or
unprofessional behavior and consistent with 3M's ethics and values – a place where
everyone can do his or her best, and where people are free to report workplace concerns
without fear of retaliation or reprisal.
Sexual Harassment

Sexual harassment is a form of harassment that is based on a person's gender, sexual
orientation, gender identity or expression. It includes unwelcome words, signs, jokes,
pranks, intimidation, physical violence, or other conduct of a sexual nature or which is
directed at an individual because of gender. Also, sexual harassment involves a request or
demand for sexual favors by someone in authority, where the demand is tied to hiring,
promotion, termination, or any other condition of employment. Although having a
consensual romantic relationship with another 3M employee is not harassment,
harassment may occur if either person in the relationship engages in workplace conduct
that is inappropriate or unwelcome.
'Sexual Harassment', includes any one or more of the following inappropriate or
unwelcome acts or behavior (whether directly or by implication) namely:

a) physical contact & advances, or
b) a demand or request for sexual favours, or
c) sexually colored remarks, or
d) showing pornography, or
e) any other unwelcome physical, verbal, or nonverbal conduct of a sexual nature.

The term "Sexual Harassment" also includes any of the following circumstances, if arising
out of any act or behavior of sexual harassment:

a) An implied or explicit promise of preferential treatment in employment, or
b) An implied or explicit threat of detrimental treatment in employment, or
c) An implied or explicit threat about present or future employment status, or
d) Interference with work, creating an intimidating or offensive or hostile work
environment or
e) Humiliating treatment likely to affect health or safety.

The following are some illustrative examples of sexual harassment for the purpose of this
policy:
Physical assaults of a sexual nature, such as:
o Touching, pinching, patting, grabbing, brushing against another
employee's body or poking another employees' body;
o Rape, sexual battery, molestation or attempts to commit these assaults.

Unwanted sexual advances or propositions, such as:
o Requests for sexual favors accompanied by implied or overt threats
concerning the victim's job performance evaluation, a promotion or
other job benefits or detriments.
o Subtle or obvious pressure for unwelcome sexual activities.

Sexually oriented gestures, noises, remarks, jokes or comments about a person's
sexuality or sexual experience, which create a hostile work environment.

Sexual or discriminatory displays or publications anywhere in the workplace, such
as:

o Displaying pictures, posters, calendars, graffiti, objects, promotional
material, reading materials or other materials that are sexually
demeaning or pornographic. This includes such sexual displays on
workplace computers or cell phones an d sharing such displays while in
the workplace.

Hostile actions taken against an individual because of that individual's sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity or expression, and the status of being transgender,
such as:
o Interfering with, destroying or damaging a person's workstation, tools or
equipment, or otherwise interfering with the individual's ability to
perform the job;
o Sabotaging an individual's work;
o Bullying, yelling, name-calling.

"Workplace" includes any premises from which 3M conducts its business operations or
any place visited by the employee arising out of or during the course of employment
including transportation provided by 3M for undertaking such journey and must be read
along with definition of workplace contained in section 2(o) of the SHWW Act.
CONSTITUTION OF INTERNAL COMMITTEE (IC):
3M has established an Internal Committee in each of the establishments operated by it to
deal with issues relating to sexual harassment at the workplace. The details of their names,
designation, email ids and phone numbers will be displayed either on the notice board or
at such conspicuous place in the establishments so that the employees can reach out to
the members when required. The members of an Internal Committee of an establishment
may change from time to time for any reason and such change will be notified as provided
above. In the event that an employee is not able to get in touch with a member or members
of the Internal Committee of an establishments, they may either reach out to the
concerned human resources manager of that establishment or write to ic.in@mmm.com
so that such employee’s grievances may be addressed by the Internal Committee.
GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL PROCEDURE:
a) Any aggrieved person, may make, in writing, complaint of sexual harassment at
workplace to the Internal Committee within a period of three months from the date of the
incident or in the case of a series of incidents, within a period of three months from the
date of the last incident. The period for filing the complaint may be further extended for
reasons to be recorded in writing, if it is satisfied that the circumstances were such which
prevented the person from filing a complaint within the said period.
b) Where the aggrieved person is unable to make a complaint on account of her physical
or mental incapacity or death or otherwise, her legal heir or such other person, including
one of the following persons, may make a complaint.
her relative or friend; or
her co-worker; or

an officer of the National Commission for Women or State Women’s Commission;
or
any person who has knowledge of the incident, with the written consent of the
aggrieved person;

c) Where the aggrieved person is unable to make a complaint on account of her mental
incapacity, a complaint may be filed by-
her relative or friend; or
a special educator; or
a qualified psychiatrist or psychologist; or
the guardian or authority under whose care she is receiving treatment or care; or
any person who has knowledge of the incident jointly with her relative or friend
or a special educator or qualified psychiatrist or psychologist, or guardian or
authority under whose care she is receiving treatment or care;
For the purpose of this Policy, “special educator” means a person trained in communication
with people with special needs in a way that addresses their individual differences and
needs.
d) Where the aggrieved person for any other reason is unable to make a complaint, a
complaint may be filed by any person who has knowledge of the incident, with her written
consent;
e) where the aggrieved person is dead, a complaint may be filed by any person who has
knowledge of the incident, with the written consent of her legal heir.
f) At the time of filing the complaint, the complainant shall submit to the Internal
Committee, six (6) copies of the complaint along with supporting documents and the
names and addresses of the witnesses. However, non- submission of 6 copies or
supporting documents shall not vitiate the complaint and the Internal Committee shall be
entitled to direct the complainant to prepare 6 copies and ask for such additional
information or documents as may be required by the complainant to substantiate her
complaint.
(g) On receipt of the complaint, the Internal Committee shall send one of the copies
received from the aggrieved person to the respondent within a period of seven (7) working
days.
(h) The respondent shall file his/her reply to the complaint along with list of documents,
and names and addresses of witnesses, within a period not exceeding ten (10) working
days from the date of receipt of the documents specified under the above provision.
(i) The Internal Committee shall have the right to terminate the inquiry proceedings or to
give an ex-parte decision on the complaint, if the complainant or respondent fails, without
sufficient cause, to present herself or himself for three (3) consecutive hearings convened
by the Internal Committee.

Such termination or ex- parte order may not be passed without giving a notice in writing,
at least fifteen (15) days in advance, to the party concerned.
j) The parties shall not be allowed to bring in any legal practitioner to represent them in
their case at any stage of the proceedings before the Internal Committee.
k) The complainant will be afforded full confidentiality at this stage and contents of the
complaint, identity/address of the aggrieved person , respondent, any witness,
recommendations of the Internal Committee or actions taken by 3M must not be
published, communicated or made known to the press, public or media at any time.
PROTECTION AGAINST VICTIMISATION:
In the event complainant being an employee and the accused/respondent being her
manager/peer/ team member, during the pendency of investigation and even after such
investigation if the accused is found to be guilty, then 3M reserves the right to take
appropriate action such as change of reporting structure to the benefit of the complainant.
During the pendency of investigation, the Internal Committee may also require 3M to –
transfer the aggrieved person or respondent to another workplace or
grant the aggrieved person leaves up to a period of three (3) months. The leave
granted will be in addition to the leave that the aggrieved person is otherwise
entitled to, or
such other relief as may be prescribed under law or required in the interest of
equity and natural justice.
Further relief to the aggrieved person could be that the Internal Committee at the written
request of the aggrieved woman may recommend 3M to restrain the respondent from
reporting on the work performance of the aggrieved person or writing her confidential
report, and assign the same to another officer.
CONSEQUENCE OF COMPLAINT BEING PROVED:
In the event allegations made in the complaint are proved against the emp loyee, the
Internal Committee must recommend to 3M management –
To treat, and take action for, sexual harassment as misconduct in accordance with
the manner as may be prescribed; and/or
To deduct from the salary or wages of the respondent such sum, as may be
considered appropriate, to be paid to the aggrieved person or his/her legal heirs.
In case 3M is unable to make such deduction from the salary of the respondent due to
his/her being absent from duty or cessation of employment it may direct to the respondent
to pay such sum to the aggrieved person. Further, in case the respondent fails to pay the
sum, the Internal Committee may forward the order for recovery of the sum as an arrear
of land revenue to the concerned district officer under the SHWW Act.

Further actions can include a written apology, warning, reprimand or censure, withholding
of promotion or demotion, withholding of pay rise or increments, termination from service,
counselling sessions or community serviced.
3M shall act upon the recommendation within sixty (60) days of its receipt.
MALICIOUS COMPLAINTS
If the Internal Committee finds, after an inquiry, that the complaint is malicious or false, it
may recommend to 3M management to take action according to applicable HR policies
including but not limited to termination of service. However, a mere inability to
substantiate a complaint or provide adequate proof need not attract action against the
complainant.
Further actions can include a written apology, warning, reprimand or censure, withholding
of promotion, withholding of pay rise or increments, counselling sessions or community
service.
RETALIATION IS PROHIBITED
Any retaliation against anyone who reports a concern about sexual harassment or who
testifies or assists in any investigation or proceeding involving sexual harassment is strictly
prohibited by this policy. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in
disciplinary action, including but not limited to termination of service.
APPEAL
Any person aggrieved from the recommendation of the Internal Committee, may prefer an
appeal to Vidya Sarathy, CFO for 3M India, within ninety (90) days of the recommendation
given by the Internal Committee, who will independently assess on the merits thereof.
THIRD PARTY HARASSMENT:
In case of a sexual harassment complaint against a third-party’s employee the Internal
Committee will actively assist and provide all its resources to the complainant in pursuing
the complaint and ensure her safety at least in the company's premises.
OTHER PROCEEDINGS:
The proceedings under this policy must not be sta lled or postponed merely because the
complainant is proceeding against the accused under any other provision of civil or
criminal law.
The provisions of this policy must not restrict the power of 3M or complainant to proceed
against the alleged offender for any other misconduct or to pursue the criminal or civil
remedies available under applicable laws.

Code of Conduct BE RESPECTFUL: Respectful Workplace BE GOOD: Compliance BE GOOD: Employee
Obligations and Reporting
Linked
Documents
Employment at 3M Policy
Violence Prevention Standard
3M's Code of Conduct
Other Reference None
Further
Information
For any queries / clarification, employees must contact the Internal Committee or HR as
appropriate.
Original Issue
Date
5/4/2017
Last Reviewed
Date

Version Effective
Date
15/6/2021
Next Review Date 15/6/2023
Language English
Summary of
Changes
Update to the policy and reconstitution of IC pertaining to Bangalore, Mumbai, Kolkata ,
Chennai.
Tags

PROPOSER APPROVER-1 APPROVER-2
Name Rachita P Shreya Bhagwanth Ramesh Ramadurai
Designation POSH IC Presiding Officer HR Operations Leader, 3M India Managing Director,
3M India
Signature &
Date
