MyGov ATTENDANCE & WORK PROTOCOLS

1. Objective
To establish a transparent linkage between attendance inputs and payroll.
2. Scope
The policy is applicable to all resources of MyGov.
3. Work Protocol
a) All employees are required to work 8.5 hours a day including a 30-minute break
for lunch. Work timing schedule may vary from time to time based on business
requirements as specified by the organization from time to time. Employees may
be required to work a dditional hours during the work week / weekly offs, if
required, to fulfil the responsibility of a role/project and at the demand of work
exigencies. No additional compensation is payable for such stretched working
hours.
b) Employees attending office less than 4 hours in a day are required to mark half
day leave for that particular day.
4. Attendance:
a) All employees are expected to Mark-In & Mark-Out their attendance in biometric
machine installed in MeitY premises on daily basis. It is the responsibility of the
employee to ensure that their attendance is recorded in time.
b) If, in case of unforeseen circumstances, the resource is not able to report on
time, she/he should inform the manager of the same.
c) If due to any reason, employee misses registering their attendance through
biometrics, the attendance for the same should be shared with reporting manager
and HR on e-mail.
d) If the employee has a planned meeting (out of office) on any day and will not
be able to mark the attendance, the same should be shared with the reporting
manager and HR on e -mail. Mark-In & Mark -Out is to be marked in biometric
machine once the employee resumes office post meeting.

f) The attendance inputs are linked to payroll. If these inputs are at variance with
the real / physical attendance these will be treated as unauthentic data.
g) Unauthentic inputs are akin to dishonest conduct for a pecuniary advantage
and can result in disciplinary action.
5. Attendance Infractions
a) Attendance delinquencies will result in progressive disciplinary action up to
and including termination based on the following point system:
First Instance: A warning letter (via e-mail or postal mail) and a managerial
counselling session that will be documented and filed in the employee’s
personal records in the first instance of unauthorised absence;

Second Instance: A second case of unauthorised absence will entail a
warning letter (via e -mail or postal mail) to the absentee. 2 written
warnings within a span of 6 months, at any gap that is warranted, will invite
disciplinary action that may include, but will not be limited to, loss of pay,
adverse appraisal ratings, being relieved of responsibilities and suspension
from work for a period of time determined by competent authority; and

Third Instance: Termination. If three warning letters are issued then the
employee will be considered a habitual offender and services terminated. It
may be noted here that warning letters can be issued in quick succession
if, during a period of unauthorized absence, the employee fails to respond
to such letters.
b) If an employee is a no call - no show for three consecutive days it will be
considered a job abandonment, or termination without notice.

c) Employees may request exceptions for work absences from human
resources and management. These will be approved on a case -by-case
basis. If an employee is absent for three or more consecutive days on
medical grounds, evidence for excusing the absence, such as a doctor’s
note, prescriptions or reports, must be provided.

6. Exceptions/Modifications
Any exceptions to this policy would require prior approval.
The Policy may be modified / reviewed from time to time.
All exceptions/approvals are at the discretion of CEO, MyGov.
