Human Rights Policy Page 1
Aurobindo Pharma Limited

Policy Name: Human Rights Policy
Last Revision 13th June’2024

1. Policy Statement:

Aurobindo is committed to foster an eco -system for protection of Human Rights and
inclusive development. Aurobindo takes pride in the success, growth and empowerment
of our employees. As a responsible corporate citizen, Aurobindo always act in a human -
rights-conscious manner and conduct business in a legal, ethical, honest manner at all
times. Therefore, throughout its operations and supply chain, Aurobindo is committed to
adhere to the principles of human rights protection.

2. Scope:

This Policy is applicable to all our stakeholders including employees, contractual
associates, contractors, sub-contractors, suppliers, vendors and the community members
being engaged by Aurobindo Pharma Limited and its subsidiaries/joint ventures across
India.

3. Compliance with Local Laws:

Aurobindo conduct the business by complying with all applicable laws, statutes and
regulations that are applicable to human rights.

4. Principles:

Aurobindo shall drive the philosophy of ‘equal opportunity employer’ by adopting the
following principles of human rights, which are in line with the UN Guiding Principles on
Business and Human Rights; and the International Labour Organization (ILO).

A. Respect for Individual Right and Dignity:
Respect for individual right and dignity is fundamental to the sustainability of any
business and communities in which Aurobindo operates. Aurobindo is committed to
ensure that people are treated with dignity and respect. Aurobindo has devised
Corporate Values wherein all aspects of People Care are given due importance and
recognition.

B. Prohibition of Child Labour and Forced Labour:
In line with the commitment to good labour practices, Aurobindo shall neither engage
nor support the use of a person below the age of 18 years or any forced / compulsory
labour in all our units. Aurobindo does not engage with any vendor or supplier, who
engage child and other forced labour.

Human Rights Policy Page 2
C. Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination and Diversity:
Aurobindo is committed to a diverse workplace with equal opportunities for all
employees based solely on merit and ability. Aurobindo is committed to building a
culture in which all employees can compete in a fair, open and transparent
environment. Merit in qualification, performance and capability form the sole criteria
for selection. Aurobindo have policies in place to ensure the employees are treated
fairly without any discrimination in any form, whether compensation, training and
employee benefits, caste, religion, differently-abled, gender, sexual orientation, race,
colour, ancestry, marital status or affiliation with a political, religious or union
organization or majority/minority group.

D. Safe and Healthy workplace:
Aurobindo is committed to conduct its operations with due regard for the environment
and provide a safe and healthy workplace for its employees to contribute sustainable
development through the establishment and implementation of environment, health,
and safety standards that meet the requirement of relevant laws, regulations and
codes of practice.

E. Community:
Aurobindo believes in developing goodwill, creating sustainable employment and
stimulating economic opportunities in the communities that host the business. Being
a part of the community, Aurobindo achieves part of its talent sustainability agenda
by transferring unique skills and knowledge to the community members and creating
livelihood opportunities for them.

F. Fair Treatment at workplace:
Aurobindo treats all employees with respect and provides a work environment free
from all forms of harassment, whether physical, verbal or psychological. This includes
behavior or action directed towards third parties during the course of conducting its
business.

G. Freedom of Expression:
Freedom of expression, which means the right to speak, write, listen or challenge,
must be protected as it is essential to discover, critical assessment and effective
dissemination of knowledge and ideas. Employees have the right to freedom of opinion
and expression.

H. Freedom of Association & Collective Bargaining:
a) Aurobindo encourages its employees to participate in bi-partite forums like Works
Committee, Safety Committee, etc. in order to provide a platform to express their
views, ideas, concerns and suggestions, which fosters cordial work relations and
work environment.
b) Aurobindo do not put restrictions on employees to organize themselves to
negotiate with the management as a measure of mutual interdependence.

c) Aurobindo ensures that no employee or business associate is subjected to
harassment, discrimination, intimidation or retaliation in any manner while being
associated with the company.

Human Rights Policy Page 3
5. Grievance Redressal Mechanism:

Aurobindo implements the above standards by incorporating in related policies, processes
and guidelines across all its business operations. Aurobindo conducts trainings to
strengthen in-house awareness and education on the practice of human rights.

5.1 Aurobindo provides an access to Human Rights Compliance Hotline to all employees,
vendors, suppliers and customers to raise their grievances and to report confidentially
and anonymously without fear of retaliation any breach of policies and procedures at
Aurobindo. Every employee has a right to report grievances, non - compliance or
concern through ‘People Care Link’ in HRMS and also encouraged oral
communication by dialing the hotline connect number 77666 or sending a dedicated
email to humanrights@aurobindo.com.

5.2 In addition to, a unique on-line system i.e. ‘People Care Link’ is incorporated in HRMS,
through which the employees can post their concerns/grievances. Employees can
also post their suggestions in the same platform. Further, Employee Grievance
Redressal Committee is also constituted to address the grievances of employees
apart from the on-line platform i.e. People Care Link. Similarly, the Contract Workmen
are also encouraged to express/share their views / ideas / concerns freely at
workplace/meetings etc.

5.3 Grievance Redressal Mechanism

➢ Any complaint that is received through email address humanrights@aurobindo.com or
Hotline Number 77666- Corporate HR would be addressed in a systematic manner.
➢ Preliminary enquiry will be conducted by involving the complainant in such a way that
the matter will be dealt with utmost confidentiality within 3days time. Preliminary enquiry
will enable the Management to find out whether there is a prima facie case or not.
➢ Corporate HR, Unit HR, concerned Department HOD hold detailed enquiry by having
aggrieved employee, contractors, suppliers, vendors from whom the complaint is
received.
➢ Corporate/ Unit HR will hold multipartite discussion with the intention of concluding the
matter that is being brought to the attention of Management amicably.
➢ In case any repeated complaint with same Employee, Contractor, Vendor matter shall
bring an attention to the Director level for appropriate decision . Corporate HR will strive
to resolve the matter within 2 to 5 days of its receipt by the Management.
6 Product Safety:

Aurobindo take the necessary steps and ensure that the products they manufacture do
not pose any hazards as a result of side effects, defects or overuse.

7 Privacy of Data:

Aurobindo is dedicated to safeguard the privacy of people, who entrust the Company
with personal information, including its employees and anyone with whom the Company
does business.

Human Rights Policy Page 4
8 Recruitment:

Aurobindo diligently follows the systems in recruitment, compensation and promotion of
the people that is completely based on merit, aptitude and performance. The terms and
conditions of recruitment are explicitly explained to the prospective employees before they
join formally. The Company does not take any recruitment fees and do not tolerate any
unethical practices.

9 Wages, Work Hours and Leave Benefits:

Aurobindo is committed to comply with all applicable local laws related to wages, work
hours, overtime and other benefits.
10 Security Arrangements:

Aurobindo ensure that suitable security systems are in place. There is a system in place
for recording and resolving all security -related incidents and dealing with the employees
or community concerns about security personnel's behavior.

11 Communication of Policy:

This policy is communicated to all employees and business associates in an appropriate
and meaningful manner through intranet, noticeboards and awareness trainings.

12 Review and Monitoring:

Compliance of this policy will be regularly monitored and reviewed by the Corporate HR
with Top Management once in every year.

Version History
Topic Human Rights Policy
Department Human Resources Revision Number 2
Area HR Department Review Date 13/06/2024
