NTIPRIT
National Telecommunication Institute for Policy Research, Innovation and Training
Ghaziabad – 201002. www.ntiprit.gov.in
CCS Conduct Rules - 1964

The essence of Government service is the sense of
discipline to which all Government employees are subject
and the privileges to which they, in general are entitled
Article 311 of the Constitution essentially provides a
shield against arbitrary action against Government
servants.
These two aspects are fully covered by two sets of
service rules, viz ., Central Civil Services (Conduct)
Rules, 1964 and the Central Civil Services
(Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965.
Basic concept

A Government employee who violates any provisions of
the CCS (Conduct) Rules, 1964 can be proceeded
against and imposed with, for good and sufficient
reasons, any of the penalties mentioned in Rule 11 of the
CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965.
But, since the Government servant enjoys protection
under Article 311 of the Constitution, the Appointing
Authority or the Disciplinary Authority has to follow
certain procedures as laid down in the CCS (CCA), 1965
Rules
Basic concept

Government employees are expected to adhere to
certain standards of ‘conduct’ and ‘discipline’.
These norms have been codified in these two separate
sets of service rules, viz.,
The two Rules are not mutually exclusive; they are, for all
intents and purposes inter-woven and interconnected.
The CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 which embodies the rules
relating to the aspect of ‘discipline’ derive their legality
from Article 311. Violation of the principles of natural
justice by any authority while imposing a penalty on a
Government servant can be questioned in the Court of
Law.
Basic concept

The CCS Conduct rules came into force on the 30th
November 1964

CCS (CCA) rules came into force on the 1 st December,
1965.

The Conduct Rules for Government servants were
devised with a view to maintaining integrity in public
Services; CCS (Conduct) Rules, 1964 were notified laying
down the Code of Conduct for Central Government
employees.
Several provisions of the rules have been amended from
time-to-time and a number of clarifications have been
issued an updated version was published in Jan 2006
So far as the actual application of the Government orders
mentioned under various Rules are concerned, the
relevant O.M. may be consulted
Basic Concept

A Govt servant has a servant and master relationship with
the Govt which implies that:
The employee has to be faithful, honest and possessed with good
character.
The Govt has right to prescribe rules of procedure to control the way
of his working.
The employee should be capable of the work for which he is
employed.
The employee is bound by every lawful order of the Govt in his
sphere of work.
The employee has to take proper care of the property entrusted to
him.
The employee should have accountability in matters relating to his
employment.
Basic Concept

The CCS (Conduct) Rules, 1964 is made up of 25 rules.
All these are statutory rules within the meaning of Article
309 of the Constitution, and have been clarified wherever
necessary by executive orders in the form of Government
of India’s decisions or instructions appended below the
relevant rule.

1. Short title, commencement and application
Save as otherwise provided in these rules and subject to
the provisions of the Indian Foreign Service (Conduct
and Discipline) Rules, 1961, these rules shall apply to
every person appointed to a civil service or post
(including a civilian in Defence Service) in connection
with the affairs of the Union:
Conduct Rules

In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires-
(a) "The Government" means the Central Government;
(b) "Government Servant" means any person appointed
by Government to any civil service or post in connection
with the affairs of the Union and includes a civilian in a
Defense Service;
Explanation- A Government Servant whose services are placed at
the disposal of a Company, Corporation, Organization or a Local
Authority by the Government shall, for the purpose of these rules, be
deemed to be a Government Servant serving under the Government
notwithstanding that his salary is drawn from sources other than the
Consolidated Fund of India;

Conduct Rules

To regulate general behavior of Govt Servants
To secure full commitment of Govt servants in
implementing Govt’s policies
To set certain moral standards
The fundamental requirement are integrity, honesty,
efficiency and good behaviour of a public servant.
Objectives of Conduct Rules

To eliminate all forms of immoral and immoderate
behavior, which are likely to impact on Govt servant’s
capabilities to discharge his duties
To make Govt servant to learn to live within his means,
since he belongs to fixed income group.
To prevent Govt servant from aligning against Govt or
exercising undue influence or duress.
Objectives of Conduct Rules

The Do’s
Rule 3 (1) Every Govt Servant shall at all times
(i) Maintain absolute integrity
(ii) Maintain absolute devotion to duty
(iii)Do nothing, which is unbecoming of a Govt
Servant
Government expects that the conduct of its employees
should conform to the ordinary norms of decency and
morality prevailing in the society and one should not
violate the laws of the land.

CCS Conduct Rules

Integrity : uprightness, honesty or purity
What is honesty?

Dishonesty::Whoever does anything with the intention of
causing wrongful gain to one person or wrongful loss to
another person, is said to do that thing dishonestly.(I.P.C)

‘Devotion to duty’ has been used as something opposed
to indifference to duty or easy going or light-hearted
approach to duty. It means faithfulness to service.

CCS Conduct Rules

A conduct which is indecent, reprehensible or
abominable involving moral though not legal lapses, is
also conduct unbecoming of Govt. servant.
Becoming conduct
It should be in conformity with the ordinary norms of
decency & Morality, prevalent in the society he lives.
It should be in consonance with the laws of a land which
he is bound to respect.
There is not a deliberate breach of departmental rules
by the employees

CCS Conduct Rules

Rule 3: Aims at maintenance of efficiency, commitment to
duty, honesty and discipline among Govt employees

Rules of conduct may and do vary from time to time.
They must at all times be judged from a robust common
sense point of view on a reasonable standard.

CCS Conduct Rules

Rule 3: Aims at maintenance of efficiency, commitment to
duty, honesty and discipline among Govt employees

Rules of conduct may and do vary from time to time.
They must at all times be judged from a robust common
sense point of view on a reasonable standard.

CCS Conduct Rules

A conduct would be unbecoming, if it is

not in conformity with the ordinary norms of decency and
morality prevalent in the society
or
not in consonance with the laws of land
or
is against the declared policies of the Govt
or
deliberate breach of any rules regulations etc.

“Unbecoming Conduct...”

Suppression of information regarding arrest or conviction
Participation in proselytizing activities
Bidding at auctions conducted by one’s own department
Neglect of family
Practicing untouchability
Submission of joint representation
Lack of decorum during lunch hour
Sub-letting Govt accommodation
Refusal to accept a charge sheet
Disobeying an order of suspension
Assault on another Govt servant
Possession of disproportionate assets
Sexual harassment to woman

Misconduct amounting to “unbecoming...”

Rule 3 (2)
i. Every G.S shall holding supervisory post shall take all
possible steps to ensure the integrity and devotion to
duty of all government servants for the time being under
his control and authority;
ii. No G.S shall in the performance of his official duties or
in the exercise of powers conferred on him act
otherwise than in his best judgment except where he is
acting under the direction of his official superiors

CCS Conduct Rules

Rule 3 (2)
iii. The direction of the official superior shall ordinarily be in
writing. Oral direction to subordinates shall be avoided,
as far as possible. Where the issue of oral direction
becomes unavoidable, the official superior shall confirm
it in writing immediately thereafter;
iv. A G.S who has received oral directions from his official
superior shall seek confirmation of the same in writing.

CCS Conduct Rules

Rule 3 (Insertions)

A. Promptness & Courtesy in discharge of official duties
and in dealing with public
(a) in the performance of his official duties, act in a
discourteous manner;
(b) in his official dealings with the public or otherwise adopt
dilatory tactics or willfully cause delays in disposal of
the work assigned to him.
CCS Conduct Rules

Rule 3 (Insertions)

B. Observance of Govt.’s Policies regarding age of
marriage, preservation of environment, protection of
wildlife & cultural heritage and prevention of crime
against women
CCS Conduct Rules

A Govt. servant must not sexually harass any woman at
her workplace.

A Govt. servant who is in-charge of a workplace must
take appropriate steps to prevent sexual harassment of
women at such workplace.

Rule 3C: Prohibition of Sexual harassment
of working women

Intimation for employment of a member of his
family in ANY firm/company, with which official
dealings are there.

Rule 4

Maintain impartiality
Maintain standard conduct in private life
Maintain prompt and courteous service
Maintain proper decorum working, lunch hours
Report arrest or conviction
Keep away from demonstrations
Other Do’s

Avoid habitual indebtedness or insolvency
Act in accordance with Govt policies
Observe courtesy to MP/MLA (GI under Rule 3)
Not to be a member of any political party (Rule 5)
-It is essential that Government servants should not
only maintain political neutrality but should also appear to
do so.
Other Do’s....

Govt servant should not lease or otherwise allow
occupation by any other person, of the Govt
accommodation which has been allotted to him (Rule 15A)
Govt servant shall not be under the influence of any
intoxicating drink or drug during the course of his duty
(Rule 22)

Don’ts

To join educational institution : Rule 15
To join Home guards : Rule 3
To join foreign language class : Rule 5

To participate in the editing : Rule 8
or management
Activities requiring permission or sanction

To give evidence in any enquiry (Rule 10)
To ask for or accept contributions (Rule 12)
To accept gifts when value exceeds limits (Rule 13)
To engage in any trade or business (Rule 15)
Activities requiring permission or sanction...

To acquire or dispose any immovable property (Rule18)
To enter into transactions in movable property exceeds
limits (Rule 18)- Twice basic pay
Activities requiring permission or sanction...

Group A Rs.5000

Group B Rs.5000

Group C Rs.2000

Acceptance of Gifts

• Gifts include
•Free transport
•Free boarding, lodging or
•Any other pecuniary advantage
Acceptance of Gifts...

Dowry; shall not give or take (Rule 13-A)

Bigamous marriage not permitted {Rule 21 (2)}

Marriage with foreign national should be intimated {Rule21 (3)}
Marriage Restrictions

Dowry; shall not give or take (Rule 13-A)

Bigamous marriage not permitted {Rule 21 (2)}

Marriage with foreign national should be intimated {Rule21 (3)}
Marriage Restrictions

It is said that the service security, safety, reputation and
honour of the Government servants are in their own
hands.
A faithful and honest compliance with the Conduct Rules
and yet, unhesitant but dynamic discharge of duties, are
the hall mark of efficient Government servants.
It is expected that the participants will observe the Rules
of Conduct while performing their duties in office and as a
civil citizen
To Conclude:

It is responsibility of every officer to correctly understand,
apply and enforce the various provisions of the CCS
(Conduct) Rules when required to do so without being
off-track, arbitrary or subjective
The institution of disciplinary proceedings, therefore, calls
for strict norms. In each case, the right officer has to
order proceedings, the right officer has to conduct the
inquiry, and the right officer has to make the decisions so
that there is no charge of arbitrariness.
For all this to fall in right place we need to understand the
rules properly
To Conclude:

THANK YOU
