Policy Adopted on November 24, 2021

DREAMFOLKS SERVICES LIMITED

Vigil Mechanism Policy/Whistle Blower
Policy

Policy Adopted on November 24, 2021

1. Introduction

1.1 Dreamfolks Services Limited, is committed to conducting business with
integrity, including in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations.

1.2 Section 177(9) of the Companies Act, 2013 mandates the following classes
of companies to constitute a vigil mechanism:-

i) Every listed company;
ii) Every other company which accepts deposits from the public;
iii) Every company which has borrowed money from banks and public
financial institutions in excess of Rupees Fifty Crore.

Regulation 22 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended (“Listing
Regulations”) requires the listed entity shall formulate a vigil mechanism for
directors and employees to report genuine concerns about unethical
behavior, actual or suspected fraud or violation of company’s Code of
Conduct or ethics policy.

The vigil mechanism shall provide for adequate safeguards against
victimization of director(s) or employee(s) or any other person who avail the
mechanism and also provide for direct access to the chairperson of the audit
committee in appropriate or exceptional cases.

1.3 This Vigil Mechanism / Whistle Blower Policy (“Policy” or “this Policy”) is
formulated in order to comply with the Act and the said Rules.

2. Scope

Dreamfolks Services Limited through this policy envisages to encourage the
Directors and Employees of the Company to report to the appropriate authorities
any unethical behavior, improper, illegal or questionable acts, deeds, actual or
suspected frauds or violation of the Company’s Code of Conduct for Directors and
Senior Management Personnel. The unethical, improper, and illegal activities
inter-alia include–
1. An act of omission, commission, concealment, misrepresentation which
necessarily are in violation of law of the land, rules and regulation of the
Company, Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company and

Policy Adopted on November 24, 2021
against the accepted principles jeopardizing the interest and growth of the
Company;
2. An abuse of authority;
3. Breach of employment contract;
4. Pilferation of confidential/proprietary information;
5. Breach of Code of Conduct;
6. Misuse or diversion of the Company’s funds, assets and manpower;
7. Intentional financial irregularities, including fraud or suspected frauds;
8. Unnecessary sharing/ Leaking of unpublished price sensitive information;
9. Manipulation of Company data/records;
10. Gross or willful negligence causing substantial and specific danger to health,
safety, and environment;
11. Any act, deed or thing which goes against the interest of the Company.

Definitions:- The definitions of some of the key terms used in this Policy are
given below:

a) “Audit Committee” means the Audit Committee of Directors constituted by the
Board of Directors of the Company.

b) “Employee” means every permanent employee and regular employee of the
Company whether working in India or abroad, including the directors in the
employment of the Company.

c) “Director” means every directors of the Company.

d) “Protected Disclosure” means any communication made in good faith that
discloses or demonstrates information that may evidence unethical or improper
activity.

e) “Subject” means a person against or in relation to whom a Protected Disclosure
has been made or evidence gathered during the course of an investigation.

f) “Vigilance Officer/Vigilance Committee or Committee” means a person or
committee of persons nominated/appointed by the board of directors to receive
Protected Disclosure from Whistle Blowers, maintaining records thereof, placing
the same before the Audit Committee for its disposal and informing the Whistle
Blowers the result thereof.

Policy Adopted on November 24, 2021
g) “Whistle Blower” means an Employee or Director making a Protected Disclosure
under this policy.

Eligibility:-
This Policy is applicable to:
➢ the Directors;
➢ the regular or permanent or contractual employees; and
➢ Designated Persons as defined the “Code of Internal Procedures and Conduct
for Regulating, Monitoring and Reporting of Trading in Securities by Designated
Persons” adopted by the Company.

Procedure:-

All Protected Disclosures should be reported in writing by the Whistle-Blower as
soon as possible, not later than 30 days after the Whistle Blower becomes aware
of the same and should either be typed or written in a legible handwriting in
English/Hindi. The Protected Disclosure should be submitted under a covering
letter signed by the Whistle Blower in a closed and secured envelope and should
be super scribed as “Protected Disclosure under the Whistle Blower policy” or sent
through email with the subject “Protected Disclosure under the Whistle Blower
policy”.

If the Protected Disclosure is not super scribed and closed as mentioned above,
the protected disclosure will be dealt with as if a normal disclosure. All Protected
Disclosures should be addressed to the Vigilance Officer of the Company or to the
Chairman of the Audit Committee in exceptional cases.

In order to protect the identity of the Whistle Blower, the Vigilance Officer will not
issue any acknowledgement to him and he is not advised neither to write their
name / address on the envelope nor enter into any further correspondence with
the Vigilance Officer.

Anonymous / Pseudonymous disclosure shall not be entertained by the Vigilance
Officer. On receipt of the Protected Disclosure, the Vigilance Officer shall detach
the covering letter bearing the identity of the Whistle-Blower and process only the
Protected Disclosure.

The Vigilance Officer shall keep a register for the registration of the Protected
Disclosures received from the Whistle Blowers, with each Disclosure serially
numbered and the action taken/recorded in each case.

Policy Adopted on November 24, 2021
6. Role of Vigilance & Ethics Officer

All Protected Disclosures under this Policy will be recorded and thoroughly
investigated. The Vigilance Officer will carry out an investigation either
himself/herself or by involving any other Officer of the Company/ Committee
constituted for the same /an outside agency before referring the matter to the
Board of Directors of the Company.

The Vigilance & Ethics Officer will notify the sender and acknowledge receipt of
the reported violation or suspected violation within 7 days.

The investigation shall be completed normally within 90 days of the receipt of the
Protected Disclosure and is extendable by such period as the Vigilance & Ethics
Officer deems fit.

Any member of the Board of Directors or other officer having any conflict of
interest with the matter shall disclose his/her concern /interest forthwith and shall
not deal with the matter.

Investigation:-

All Protected Disclosures under this policy will be recorded and thoroughly
investigated. The Vigilance Officer will carry out an investigation either
himself/herself or by involving any other Officer of the Company/Committee
constituted for the same /an outside agency before referring the matter to the
Audit Committee of the Company.

The Audit Committee, if deems fit, may call for further information or particulars
from the Subject and at its discretion, consider involving any other/additional
Officer of the Company and/or Committee and/ or an outside agency for the
purpose of investigation. The subject shall have a duty to co-operate with the
investigator and responsibility not to interfere or obstruct with the investigation
process.

The Audit Committee can summon the Whistle Blower to take oral evidence or
may ask for further documentary evidence in support of his/her compliant.

The investigation by itself would not tantamount to an accusation and is to be
treated as a neutral fact finding process.

Policy Adopted on November 24, 2021
The investigation shall be completed normally within 90 days of the receipt of the
Protected Disclosure and is extendable by such period as the Audit Committee
deems fit.

Any member of the Audit Committee or other officer having any conflict of interest
with the matter shall disclose his/her concern /interest forthwith and shall not deal
with the matter.

Decision and reporting:-

If an investigation leads to a conclusion that an improper or unethical act has
been committed, the Chairman of the Audit Committee shall after going through
the report and the evidences and documents submitted by the Whistle Blower
shall take appropriate decision on the report and forward the same to the Board
of Directors for suitable action. The action taken on the report shall be
communicated to the Whistle Blower/ Subject.

A quarterly report with number of complaints received under the Policy and their
outcome shall be placed before the Audit Committee and/or the Board.

A Whistle Blower who makes false allegations of unethical & improper practices or
about alleged wrongful conduct of the Subject to the Vigilance Officer or the Audit
Committee shall be subject to appropriate disciplinary action in accordance with
the rules, procedures and policies of the Company.

While acting on the basis of this policy, the employees shall act with utmost
bonafide intention, any reports complaints made by the employees under this
policy shall be true and fair supported by strong documentary evidences. The
safeguard of the Company’s interest shall be the only motive of the employees.

Protection:-

The Company shall not threaten, discriminate or take retaliatory action against an
employee in any manner which adversely affect the employee’s employment in
the organization.

No adverse action will be taken against an employee who participates or gives
information in an investigation or hearing or enquiry initiated by the Vigilance
Officer/ Officer/ Vigilance Committee/ Audit Committee.

Policy Adopted on November 24, 2021
No unfair treatment will be meted out to a Whistle Blower by virtue of his/ her
having reported a Protected Disclosure under this policy. Adequate safeguards
against victimization of complainants shall be provided. The Company will take
steps to minimize difficulties, which the Whistle Blower may experience as a result
of making the Protected Disclosure. This however, does not preclude a superior
or management from taking appropriate action against an employee for
misconduct, indiscipline, poor job performance or retrenchment as per the policy
of the Company.

The identity of the Whistle Blower shall be kept confidential to the extent possible
and permitted under law. Any other employee assisting in the said investigation
shall also be protected to the same extent as the Whistle Blower.

Confidentiality:-

The complainant, Vigilance Officer, Members of Audit Committee, the Subject and
everybody involved in the process shall, maintain confidentiality of all matters
under this Policy, discuss only to the extent or with those persons as required
under this policy for completing the process of investigations and keep the papers
in safe custody. Also keep the electronic mails/files under password.

Disqualifications:-

While it will be ensured that genuine Whistle Blowers are accorded complete
protection from any kind of unfair treatment as herein set out, any abuse of this
protection will warrant disciplinary action.

Protection under this Policy would not mean protection from disciplinary action
arising out of false or bogus allegations made by a Whistle Blower knowing it to
be false or bogus or with a malafide intention.

Whistle Blowers, who make any Protected Disclosures, which have been
subsequently found to be malafide, frivolous or malicious, shall be liable to be
prosecuted.

Access to Chairman of the Audit Committee:-

The Whistle Blower shall have right to access Chairman of the Audit Committee
directly in exceptional cases and the Chairman of the Audit Committee is
authorized to prescribe suitable directions in this regard. The contact details of
the Chairman of the Audit Committee are as under:-

Policy Adopted on November 24, 2021

Communication:-

Directors and Employees shall be informed of the Policy by publishing the same
on the notice board. The Whistle Blower Policy as adopted by the Board shall also
be made available at the website of the Company.

Retention of documents:-

All Protected Disclosures in writing or documented along with the results of
Investigation relating thereto, shall be retained by the Company for a period of 3
years or such other period as specified by any other law in force, whichever is
more .

Confirmation:-

The Company shall annually affirm that the management has not denied any
employee access to the Audit Committee for reporting under this policy. The
aforesaid affirmation shall also be incorporated in the Board Report on Corporate
Governance in the Annual Report.

Amendment:-

The Board shall review and discuss Whistle-Blower Policy from time to time and
incorporate necessary amendments thereto

Disclosure:

The Company shall disclosure its vigil mechanism and this Policy on its website.

Addendum
All Protected Disclosures or complaints pertaining to any unethical behavior, improper,
illegal or questionable acts, deeds, actual or suspected frauds or violation of the
Company’s Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management Personnel, as
outlined in the Whistle Blower/ Vigil Mechanism Policy ("Policy") may be directly
reported to the proper officer with the Caption “Protected Disclosure under the
Whistle Blower Policy” through dedicated Email ID: vigil@dreamfolks.com.
For detailed information and procedure regarding Whistle Blower/ Vigil Mechanism,
kindly refer to the Policy.
