E. I. D.-Parry (India) Limited
Human Rights Policy

Adoption date and Effective Date : April 01, 2022

HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY
1. Preamble

At E.I.D.-Parry (India) Limited (“Company”, “EID Parry”), we recognize the valuable role that
businesses can play in the long -term protection of human rights creating an work place and
work culture and maintain a work environment that is free from any harassment
/discrimination based on the said considerations.

2. Purpose:

The purpose of the policy is to respect and promote human rights in our relationship with
employees and people involved in value chain.

All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and
conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood. Everyone is entitled to
all the rights and freedoms, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language,
religion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status.

3. Scope and Applicability:

This policy applies to EID Parry including its Associate Companies, Subsidiaries, and Joint
Venture. EID Parry also expects independent contractors, Farmers and all involved in the
value chain to uphold the principles of this Policy and urges them to adopt similar policies
within their own businesses.

4. Effective date:

This Policy shall come into force on 1st April 2022 .

5. Policy Statement:

EID Parry recognize that the Company is part of the communities in which Company
operates. EID Parry engage with communities on human rights matters that are
important to them such as access to water and health.

In EID Parry, we value and advance the diversity and inclusion of the people with whom
we work. EID Parry is committed to equal opportunity and is intolerant of
discrimination and harassment. EID Parry maintain its workplaces free from
discrimination or harassment on the basis of race, sex, colour, national or social origin,
ethnicity, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identification or expression,
political opinion or any other status protected by applicable law.

The basis for recruitment, hiring, placement, development, training, compensation and
advancement at EID Parry is qualifications, performance, skills and experience. In EID
Parry, we do not tolerate disrespectful or inappropriate behaviour, unfair treatment or
retaliation of any kind. Harassment is not tolerated in the workplace and in any work -
related circumstance outside the workplace.

Employees’ right to join, form or not to join a labo ur union without fear of reprisal,
intimidation or harassment are upheld and respected by the Company . Where
employees are represented by a legally recognized union, the Company is committed to
establishing a constructive dialogue with their freely chosen representatives and the
Company is also committed to bargain in good faith with such representatives.

EID Parry committed to maintain its workplace that is free from violence, harassment,
intimidation and other unsafe or disruptive conditions due to internal and external
threats. Security safeguards for employees are provided, as needed, and are maintained
with respect for employee privacy and dignity.

Use of any forms of forced labour, including prison labour, indentured labo ur, bonded
labour, military labour, modern forms of slavery and any form of human trafficking are
prohibited in EID Parry.

Hiring of individuals under 18 years of age for positions in which hazardous work is
involved are prohibited in EID Parry.

EID Parry compensate employees competitively relative to the industry and local labour
market, and in accordance with terms of applicable collective bargaining agreements.
EID Parry ensures full compliance with applicable wage, work hours, overtime and
benefits laws.

6. Monitoring and Review:

a) Monitoring and review of this policy is governed by Human Resource department. Due
diligence is undertaken at periodical intervals as and when required to identify and
prevent human rights risks to people in our business and value chain.

b) The Managing Director is authorized to make modifications to this policy as and when
deemed necessary and appropriate to ensure the ends of the policy being served.

7. Reporting and Remedy:

a) Any questions or concerns on matters of human rights shall be reported to our
Respective Head of human resources department or Head- HR, Corporate.

b) EID Parry assures through this policy that any adverse human rights impacts resulting
from or caused by the Company’s business activities shall be appropriately and
adequately remedied in a time-bound manner.
