MyGov EXIT POLICY

1. Objective
To build and ensure a smooth separation experience with the organization.
2. Scope
The policy is applicable to all fulltime hires.
3. Separation
A resource may separate from the organization due to any of the following
reasons:
(i) Resignation
(ii) Premature conclusion of the contract
(iii) Superannuation
(iv) Other reasons
3.1 Resignation
a) A resource who wishes to resign from the services of the organization i s
required to give the notice of resignation as per the terms of his/her contract.
b) The resignation has to be sent to the reporting manager by the employee. In
case the resignation is received by any other department including HR, it has to
be re-routed to the reporting manager for further action
c) The HR in consultation with the department will initiate a discussion with the
resource and provide inputs to the department.
d) If the decision is to accept the resignation, HR confirms the relieving/separation
date of the resource to the department in consultation with the employee.
e) A Resignation Acceptance Communication is sent to the resource post approval
from the department and the resignation is processed in line with this Policy. The
resignation acceptance communication has to be by e-mail only.
f) If the decision is to retain the resource the HR along with the department will
initiate and conclude the discussion on the possible options with the resource.

g) Subject to the outcome of this discussion, the resource may opt for a
“Withdrawal of resignation request” or continue with the resignation process.
3.2 Premature Conclusion of Contract
a) During the course of contract, it may be decided by the department to conclude
the contract prematurely, due to multiple reasons including project closure.
b) Where the decision is taken to conclude the contract, the separation/exit will
be processed in accordance with this policy.
3.3 Superannuation
A resource may separate from the organization on attaining the age of
superannuation, which is currently 60 years. The date of separation from the
organization in such cases will be the date on which the employee completes 60
years of age. All separation formalities as described in this policy will be followed
for employees separating due to superannuation.
3.4 Others: Death
On account of death of the resource,
a) The HR will initiate and conclude all formalities required for the full and final
settlement on behalf of the resource, in accordance with this policy.
b) All payable dues will be made to the declared nominee(s) of the resource.
c) Administration division will arrange return of assets issued to the employee. If
such return is not possible on some ground then Administration will keep
competent authority posted about the difficulty for a decision regarding recovery
by the authority.
4. Process
The separation process is detailed and follows.
4.1 Notice Period
a) During the notice period, the resource is eligible for only sick leave available in
the credit, but MyGov in general discourages leave-taking during notice period of
an employee. No other leave can be taken during the notice period . In case of
leave other than sick leave, those number of days will be considered as leave
without pay.
b) Either party may terminate the Agreement by giving a written notice of 60 days
in case of the employee has completed 3 years in the organization and 90 days in
case he/she has completed 5 years in the organization.
b) The resource is expected to serve the notice period in accordance with the
terms and conditions of the contract.

c) Any request for curtailing notice period in an extreme situation by an employee
will require the approval of CEO, MyGov.
d) In case the employee does not report to work while on notice period, then the
organization reserves the right to recover notice period dues by adjusting leaves
if any as per the Leave Policy. The organization may also treat missing cases as
disciplinary cases and initiate action as may be deemed fit, which may include
intimating prospective employers of his conduct.
4.2 Exit Formalities
Resource is expected to handover all company assets/ID cards, etc. to the
Admin/HR, as per Exit checklist enclosed at Annexure-I and Exit interview format
enclosed at Annexure-II.
4.3 Pre-requisites for Settlement
a) No Dues certificate from all concerned , per format for Exit Checklist at
Annexure 1.
b) Residual earned leave as per leave policy.
c) Last working day/ date of resignation/contract conclusion.
d) Recovery / payment of notice pay in lieu of notice period by either side.
5. Full & Final – Pay-outs & Deductions
a) Investment proofs for the financial year for tax calculations.
b) Residual earned leave at the credit is encashed, as per the leave policy.
c) Notice Pay is paid/recovered as the case may be.
d) Salary for the month, he/she has worked up to the last working day may be
paid/adjusted, as the case may be.
e) Medi-claim premium, if applicable, is deducted if not otherwise done.
f) Provident Fund is withdrawn or transferred according to the Employees
Provident Fund Act, 1952.
6. Taxability
All Payments are taxed in line with the prevailing Income Tax Rules as applicable
to the resource.
7. Exceptions/Modifications
Any exceptions to this policy would require prior approval of CEO - MyGov.
The policy may be revised/modified from time to time.

Annexure – I
Exit Checklist
Name of Employee:
Employee No:
Designation:
Function:
Immediate Manager:
Date of Joining:
Date of Resignation:
Date of Relieving:

over the following items: (NA – Not Applicable)

Immediate Manager
Yes/
No/ NA
Value to be
recovered Signature
Has completed all assigned tasks

Has completed knowledge transfer, briefing of open
items and handed over work items in progress to
the nominated colleague

Has returned all the documents, books, packages,
confidential materials etc. that belong to the
Company

Has cleared the allocated workspace

Administration
Yes/
No/NA
Value to be
recovered Signature
Login id / email id cancelled
Computer / laptop returned
Other computer peripherals returned

Mouse
Keyboard
LAN Cable
Multiport Type – C
USB LAN Connector
External HDD
Headphones
Pen drive – 16GB
Pen drive – 32GB
Others (if any issued)
System back up taken
VPN Disabled
Keys of work area returned
Photo identity card returned
Access card returned
Finance Department
(This section is administered after employee
released from org)
Has settled all dues to the company, if any
Has filled the requisite form for PF transfer /
withdrawal
Form 16 Issued
HR Department
Exit Interview completed
(This section is administered after employee
released from org)
Relieving letter and experience certificate issued
Filing of all related documents (resignation letter,
relieving letter, experience certificate, exit form,
Full and Final settlement etc.)

Annexure – II
Exit Interview Form

Name of Employee:
Employee No:
Designation:
Function:
Date of leaving the organization:

The exit interview feedback will be maintained strictly confidential and will be shared only
with the Senior Management. The information so gathered will help us change or improve
the organization as relevant and necessary. In your feedback, please also include areas /
items that may not have been covered in the questionnaire.
Reason for resignation:
[ ] Better or higher role [ ] Better compensation/
benefits
[ ] Inadequate Opportunities for Career Growth [ ] Lack of Recognition
[ ] Personal Reasons [ ] Relocating
[ ] Relationship with Manager/ Peers [ ] Retirement
[ ] Return to Academic Career
[ ] Others
Kindly assign ranks to the following aspects of your experience in working with
us:
Use ranks from 1 to 10; where 10 indicates “The Best” and 1 indicates “The Worst”
aspects of your experience in the work environment

Rank
Office facilities
Freedom at work
Relationship with your peers
Relationship with your superior(s)
Salary & benefits
Organization policies
Systems and processes

Work culture
Career growth
Professional development

Describe in brief any particular reason or event that triggered your decision to quit.

What have been the factors or experiences that made you uncomfortable during your
tenure? What are your suggestions to address them?

Would you consider returning to this company in the future?

Would you recommend this company to a friend as a good place to work?

Is there anything the company could have done to prevent you from leaving?

Employee Signature HR Signature

Thank you very much for taking the time to complete this questionnaire.
We wish you all the best in your future endeavor!
