GPT Healthcare Limited

Document Status For Approval

For Circulation X

GPT HEALTHCARE LIMITED

VIGIL MECHANISM (WHISTLE BLOWER) POLICY

Issue Date Version Approved By Circulated By
September 27,
2023
3

Audit Committee & Board of Directors

Company Secretary

GPT Healthcare Limited

GPT HEALTHCARE LIMITED

VIGIL MECHANISM (WHISTLE BLOWER) POLICY

1. PREFACE

a. The Company believes in the conduct of the affairs of its constituents in afair and
transparent manner by adopting highest standards ofprofessionalism, honesty, integrity
and ethical behaviour. Towards thisend, the Company has adopted the Code of Conduct
(“the Code”), which lays down the principles and standards that should govern
theactions of the Company including itsdirectors and employees. Any actual or
potentialviolation of the code, howsoever insignificant or perceived as such, wouldbe a
matter of serious concern for the Company. The role of the directors and employeesin
pointing out such violations of the code cannot be undermined.

b. The sub-section (9) of section 177 of the Companies Act, 2013, inter alia provides that
every listed Company, Every other company which accepts deposits from the public and
Every company which has borrowed money from banks and public financial institutions
in excess of Rs. 50 crores shall establish a vigil mechanism for directors and employees
to report genuine concerns in such manner as may be prescribed.Regulation 22 of SEBI
(Listing Obligations &Disclosures) Regulations,2015 (“Listing Regulation”) also provides
that the Company should devise an effective whistle blower mechanism enabling
stakeholders, including individual employees and their representative bodies, to freely
communicate their concerns about illegal or unethical practices.

c. Accordingly, the board of directors of Company (“Board”) in pursuance of Regulation
22 of the SEBI Listing Regulations and Section 177 (9) of the Companies Act, 2013 read
with Rule 7 of the Companies (Meeting of Board and its Powers) Rules, 2014, adopted
the policy for vigil mechanism for directors and employees (“Whistleblower Policy”) vide
its Board meeting held on September 30, 2021 with a view to provide a mechanism for
directors and employees of theCompany to have direct access to the Chairperson of the
Audit Committee or the director nominated to play the role of Audit Committee, as the
case may be, in exceptional cases (“Authority”).

2. DEFINITIONS

The definitions of some of the key terms used in this Policy are given below. Capitalized terms
not defined herein shall have the meaning assigned to themunder the Companies Act, 2013 read
with relevant rules thereof.

a. Audit Committee means the Audit Committee constituted by the Boardof Directors of
the Company in accordance with Section 177 of theCompanies Act, 2013 and read with
Regulation 22 of Listing Regulation.

GPT Healthcare Limited

b. Authority means Chairperson of the Audit Committee or the director nominated to play
the role of Audit Committee, as the case may be, in exceptional cases.

c. Code means the code of conduct including the code of conduct for prevention of insider
trading in securities adopted by the Company.

d. Company means GPT Healthcare Limited, its subsidiaries and associates, if any.

e. Director means directors appointed to the Board of the Company whether executive,
non-executive or independent.

f. Employee means every employee of the Company (whether working inIndia or abroad).

g. Good Faith meansthere is a reasonable basis for communication of unethical and
improper practices or any other alleged wrongful conduct while communicating the
protected disclosure. Good Faith shall be deemed lacking when the whistle blower does
not have personal knowledge of the facts before communication or where the whistle
blower knew or reasonably should have known that the communication about the
unethical and improper practices or alleged wrongful conduct is malicious, false or
frivolous.

h. Investigators mean those persons authorized, appointed, consulted orapproached by
Authorityand includes the auditors of the Company and the police.

i. Protected Disclosure means any communication which is factual and not speculative in
respect of genuine concern and grievances made in good faiththat disclose or
demonstrates information that may evidence unethical, illegal orimproper activity.

j. Subject means a person against or in relation to whom a ProtectedDisclosure has been
made or evidence gathered during the course of aninvestigation.

k. Whistle Blowermeans a director or an employee making a Protected Disclosureunder
this Policy.

3. SCOPE

a. This Policy is an extension of the Code of Conduct. The WhistleBlower’s role is that of a
reporting party with reliable information. Theyare not required or expected to act as
investigators or finders of facts, norwould they determine the appropriate corrective or
remedial action thatmay be warranted in a given case.

b. Whistle Blowers should not act on their own in conducting anyinvestigative activities,
nor do they have a right to participate in anyinvestigative activities other than as
requested by the Authority or the Investigators.

c. Protected Disclosure will be appropriately dealt with by the Authority.

GPT Healthcare Limited

4. ELIGIBILITY

All directors and employees of the Company are eligible to make Protected Disclosuresunder
the Policy. The Protected Disclosures may be in relation to mattersconcerning the Company.

5. DISQUALIFICATIONS

a. While it will be ensured that genuine Whistle Blowers are accordedcomplete protection
from any kind of victimization and unfair treatment as herein set out, any abuse of this
protection will warrant disciplinary action.

b. Protection under this Policy would not mean protection from disciplinaryaction arising
out of false or bogus allegations made by a Whistle Blowerknowing it to be false or bogus
or with a mala fide intention.

c. Whistle Blowers, who make any Protected Disclosures, which have beensubsequently
found to be mala fide or malicious or Whistle Blowers whomake three or more Protected
Disclosures, which have been subsequentlyfound to be frivolous, baseless or reported
otherwise than in good faith,will be disqualified from reporting further Protected
Disclosures under thisPolicy.

6. PROCEDURE

a. All Protected Disclosures shouldbe addressed to the Authority forinvestigation.

b. The contact details of the Authority (Chairman of the Audit Committee) is as under:
Mr. Deepak Pramanik, Chairman of the Audit Committee
CD-288, Saltlake, Sector – 1, Kolkata-700064,
West Bengal, India

c. If a protected disclosure is received by any executive of the Companyother than
Authority, thesame should be forwarded to theAuthority for further appropriate action.

d. Protected Disclosures should preferably be reported in writing so as toensure a clear
understanding of the issues raised and should either betyped or written in a legible
handwriting in English, Hindi or in theregional language of the place of employment of
the Whistle Blower.Alternatively, Protected Disclosures can also be sent by email id
:whistleblower@gptgroup.co.in

e. The Protected Disclosure should be forwarded under a covering letterwhich shall bear
the identity of the Whistle Blower. The Authority shall detach thecovering letter and
forward only the Protected Disclosure to theInvestigators for investigation.

GPT Healthcare Limited

f. Protected Disclosures should be factual and not speculative or in thenature of a
conclusion, and should contain as much specific information aspossible to allow for
proper assessment of the nature and extent of theconcern.

g. For the purpose of providing protection to the Whistle Blower, the WhistleBlower should
disclose his/her identity in the covering letter forwardingsuch Protected Disclosure.

7. INVESTIGATION

a. All Protected Disclosures reported under this Policy will be thoroughlyinvestigated by
the Authority who will investigate / oversee the investigations under theauthorization
of the Audit Committee.

b. The Authority may at hisdiscretion, consider involving any Investigators for the purpose
ofinvestigation.

c. The decision to conduct an investigation taken by the Authority is by itself not an
accusation and is tobe treated as a neutral fact-finding process. The outcome of
theinvestigation may not support the conclusion of the Whistle Blower thatan improper,
illegal or unethical act was committed.

d. The identity of a Subject and the Whistle Blower will be kept confidentialto the extent
possible, given the legitimate needs of law and theinvestigation.

e. Subjects will normally be informed of the allegations at the outset of aformal
investigation and have opportunities for providing their inputsduring the investigation.

f. Subjects shall have a duty to co-operate with the Authorityand/or the Investigators
duringinvestigation to the extent that such co-operation will not compromiseselfincrimination protections available under the applicable laws.

g. Subjects have a right to consult with a person or persons of their choice,other than the
Investigators and/or members of theAuthority and/or the Whistle Blower. Subjects shall
be free at anytime to engage counsel at their own cost to represent them in
theinvestigation proceedings. However, if the allegations against the subjectare not
sustainable, then the Company may see reason to reimburse suchcosts.
h. Subjects have a responsibility not to interfere with the investigation.Evidence shall not
be withheld, destroyed or tampered with, and witnessesshall not be influenced,
coached, threatened or intimidated by the Subjects.

i. Unless there are compelling reasons not to do so, Subjects will be giventhe opportunity
to respond to material findings contained in aninvestigation report. No allegation of
wrongdoing against a Subject shallbe considered as maintainable unless there is good
evidence in support ofthe allegation.

GPT Healthcare Limited

j. Subjects have a right to be informed of the outcome of the investigation. Ifallegations
are not sustained; the Subject should be consulted as towhether public disclosure of the
investigation results would be in the bestinterest of the Subject and the Company.

k. The investigation shall be completed normally within 45 days of thereceipt of the
Protected Disclosure.

8. PROTECTION

a. No unfair treatment will be meted out to a Whistle Blower by virtue ofhis/her having
reported a Protected Disclosure under this Policy. TheCompany, as a policy, condemns
any kind of discrimination, harassment, victimization or any other unfair employment
practice being adopted against Whistle Blowers. Complete protection will, therefore, be
given toWhistle Blowers against any unfair practice like retaliation, threat orintimidation
of termination/suspension of service, disciplinary action,transfer, demotion, refusal of
promotion, or the like including any direct orindirect use of authority to obstruct the
Whistle Blower’s right to continueto perform his/her duties/functions including making
further ProtectedDisclosure. The Company will take steps to minimize difficulties, which
theWhistle Blower may experience as a result of making the ProtectedDisclosure. Thus,
if the Whistle Blower is required to give evidence incriminal or disciplinary proceedings,
the Company will arrange for theWhistle Blower to receive advice about the procedure,
etc.

b. A Whistle Blower may report any violation of the above clause to theAuthority, who shall
investigate into the same andrecommend suitable action to the management.

c. The identity of the Whistle Blower shall be kept confidential to the extentpossible and
permitted under law.Any other director or employee assisting in the said investigation
shall also beprotected to the same extent as the Whistle Blower.

9. INVESTIGATORS

a. Investigators are required to conduct a process towards fact-finding andanalysis.
Investigators shall derive their authority and access rights fromthe Authority when acting
within the course and scope of their investigation.

b. Technical and other resources may be drawn upon as necessary toaugment the
investigation. All Investigators shall be independent andunbiased both in fact and as
perceived. Investigators have a duty offairness, objectivity, thoroughness, ethical
behavior, and observance oflegal and professional standards.

c. Investigations will be launched only after a preliminary review by theAuthority, as the
casemay be, which establishes that:

GPT Healthcare Limited

i the alleged act constitutes an improper, illegal or unethical activity orconduct,
and;

ii the allegation is supported by information specific enough to beinvestigated or
in cases where the allegation is not supported byspecific information, it is felt
that the concerned matter is worthyof management review provided that such
investigation should notbe undertaken as an investigation of an improper, illegal
or unethicalactivity or conduct.

10. DECISION

If an investigation leads the Authority to conclude that an improper or unethical act has been
committed,the Authority shall recommend tothe management of the Company to take such
disciplinary or corrective actionas the Authority may deem fit. Itis clarified that any disciplinary
or corrective action initiated against theSubject as a result of the findings of an investigation
pursuant to this Policyshall adheres to the applicable conduct and disciplinaryprocedures.

11. RETENTION OF DOCUMENTS

All Protected Disclosures in writing or documented along with the results ofinvestigation
relating thereto shall be retained by the Company for a minimumperiod of seven years.

12. AMENDMENT

The Company reserves its right to amend or modify this Policy in whole or inpart, at any time
without assigning any reason whatsoever. However, no suchamendment or modification will be
binding on all concerned unless the sameis notified on the Company’s website.
