1

1, PRABHU DAYAL MARG, SANGANER AIRPORT, JAIPUR-302029
Phone No.: 91-141-3924700 | Fax No.: 91-141-3924738
www.iihmr.org E-mail: iihmr@iihmr.edu.in | URL: http://www.iihmr.edu.in

HR POLICY MANUAL

April 01,2022

CAMPUSES OF INDIAN INSTITUTE OF HEALTH MANAGEMENT RESEARCH:

2

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.

1.a. Purpose of the Manual

2.a. Mission
2.b. Thrust Areas
2.c. Environment and Core Values
2.d. Organization

3.a. Human Resource Planning and its Objectives
3.b. Source
3.c. Categories of Employment
3.d. Classifications of Employment
3.e. Procedure
3.f. Honorarium and transportation to the external experts for conducting interview
3.g. Reimbursement of travel expenses for attending interviews
3.h. Staff selection process:
3.i. Outcomes of the selection process:
3.j. Power of appointment:

4.a. Purpose
4.b. Joining Formalities
4.c. Re-Location
4.d. Joining leave (in case of new joining and transfer)

5.a. Faculty
4.b. Support Staff

6.a. Grade and Pay scale
6.b. House Rent Allowance
6.c. Transport Allowance
6.d Medical Allowance, Group Mediclaim Policy, Group Personal Accident and ES IC:
6.e. Books & Periodicals and Dress & Uniform Allowance
6.f. Grade Pay Allowance
6.g. Academic Allowance
6.h. Driver and Helper Allowance
6.i. Leave Travel Assistance
6.j. Provident and Pension Fund
6.k. Gratuity

3

7.a. For permanent staff and employees on contract break-up:
7.b. Leaves Applicable on Contractual Staff (Consolidated Salary Appointment)
7.c. Others

27. PROFESSIONAL CODE OF CONDUCT FOR SMOOTH FUNCTIONING &

4

1. ABOUT THE MANUAL

HR policy manual aims to establish the guidelines for existing and prospective members of IIHMR to
create a healthy and professional environment in the organization. Employees of IIHMR are aimed to get
familiarized with the work culture of IIHMR, so that they may derive the utmost benefit from the available
facilities and peer group solidarity.

The policies and benefit plans referred to in this policy manua l are intended to be ongoing, however,
IIHMR reserves the right to amend, modify or terminate these plans at any time. All the concerned
employees would be notified of these changes through notifications and office orders from time to time
by the competent authority after those dates all superseded policies will be null. Any assistance related to
this manual may be obtained from HR. The employees are responsible for reading, understanding, and
complying with the provisions of this Manual.

1.a. Purpose of the Manual:
The HR policy approaches and practices of IIHMR are geared towards:

➢ To provide clear guidelines for the application of human resources functions/systems.
➢ Attracting and retaining personnel of high quality and credibility.
➢ Providing an environment for professional excellence and growth.
➢ Creating a high level of morale and a sense of belonging among employees.

2. BACKGROUND

Indian Institute of Health Management Research (IIHMR), Society, established under society Act 1958 and
established IIHMR Jaipur campus. The IIHMR University through the IIHMR University Act, 2014 (Act no.3
of 2014) by the state government of Rajasthan and recognized by UGC/AICTE, former known as Institute of
Health Management Research (IIHMR), International Institute of Health Management Research, New Delhi
and Institute of Health Management Research, Bangalore (South Campus) approved by AICTE. IIHMR has a
multi-disciplinary character and is a premier Group o f Institutes of Health Management in India. IIHMR is

5

specialized in management research, postgraduate education and training for the last three decades. It
aims to generate knowledge an d technologies to provide evidence and inputs for developing effective
policies, health interventions and strategies nationally and internationally. The management philosophy,
HR policies and practices of IIHMR derive their character from these commitments.

2.a. Mission

IIHMR is dedicated to the improvement in standards of health through better management of health care
and related programs. It seeks to a ccomplish this through managem ent research, training, consultati on
and institutional networking in a national and global perspective.

2.b. Thrust Areas

IIHMR is engaged in research in policy issues, program planning, management, capacity building and postgraduate education in the health and related sectors. I t undertakes research, training , education and
consulting activities in the following areas:
➢ Public Health and Primary Health Care
➢ Health and Hospital Management
➢ Pharmaceutical Management
➢ Population and Reproductive Health
➢ Nursing Management
➢ Rural Management
➢ Health Economics and Finance
➢ Urban Health
➢ Nutrition and Health
➢ Health Communication
➢ Social and behavioural sciences
➢ Environmental health
➢ Information technology in health sector
➢ General and Human Resource Management

6

➢ Health Research Ethics
➢ NGO Management and Networking
➢ Policy and Program Management Research
2.c. Environment and Core Values

The growth prospect of IIHMR undoubtedly depends on team effectiveness rather tha n individual
brilliance. Hence, it becomes necessary that a conscious effort be made by all concerned to create and
develop an environment of mutual trust, cohesiveness and dependence, through a process of sharing
knowledge and information without relationships becoming hierarchical, but at the same time respecting
the values of organizational norms. The faculty, research and support staff work together and constitute
an enabling environment for learning and professional growth and development. IIHMR is committed to
providing a positive environment in which to work and one that encourages its employees to balance work
and personal commitments. The core values are.

➢ Openness: sharing of spontaneous feelings, thoughts, ideas, suggestions, feedback without
defensiveness while receiving and/or giving directions . Openness is also related to policies that are
clear, frank and accessible.
➢ Confrontation: facing rather than shying away from problems. It also implies an in-depth analysis of
interpersonal problems.
➢ Trust: Maintaining t he confidentiality of the information shared by others, and not misusing it.
Employees have a sense o f assurance that others wil l help when such help is needed and will honor
mutual commitments and obligations. It is also reflected in accepting what another person says at
face value, and not searching for ulterior motives.
➢ Authenticity: Congruence between what one feels, says and does. It is also reflected in owning up to
one’s mistakes, and in unreserved sharing of feelings.
➢ Proaction: Taking initiatives, pre-planning, taking preventive actions, and calculating the payoffs of an
alternative course before taking action.
➢ Autonomy: Using and giving freedom to plan and act in one’s sphere. It means respecting and
encouraging individual and role autonomy.

7

➢ Collaboration: Giving help and asking for help from others. Working together (individual or groups);
team spirit.
➢ Experimentation: Using and encouraging innovative approach; using feedback for improving, taking a
fresh look at things, and encouraging creativity.

8

2.d. ORGANIZATION
IIHMR has a flat organization structure and designed in such a way as to facilitate group
processes and as such, one to one reporting resulting in a linear structure has been avoided.

9

3. RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION

3.a. Human Resource Planning and its Objectives
Human Resource Planning is a systematic approach and shall be carried out in a set procedure to achieving the
goals of the organization.
The objective o f human resource planning is to ensure t he best fit between employees and jobs, avoiding
manpower shortages or surpluses while reviewing retention practices in IIHMR.

3.b. Source
Recruitments are made through a formal process such as advertisement in print media, social media, job portals ,
headhunting a gency etc. as well as through informal sources such as references (internal & external) , data bank
and internal candidates.

3.c. Categories of Employment
Every position at IIHMR is designated into different forms of employment classification, which in turn determines
how various human resource policies are applied to that position. We recognize the value of culture and individual
differences among employees. We believe th at these in dividual differences if properly managed will enable us to
work efficiently and effectively by creating a productive environment where each employee feels valued and where
everyone unique talents are fully utilized to achieve our mission. We will strive to eliminate biases in the selection,
promotion, performance assessment, compensation and learning opportunities.

3.d. Classifications of Employment
➢ Employee on Probation : A newly employed person will be on probation of not more than one year which may
be extended to a further period of not more than six months . However, the person wil l be eligible for
proportional benefits as per the rules of IIHMR. The services of an employee on probation may be
terminated at any time, without any notice during or immediately after the probation period
➢ Permanent Employe es: A permanent employee has successfully completed his or her probationary period and
eligible for all the benefits that accrue from their employment and consistent with their grade.
➢ Seconded Employees: A seconded employee has been seconded to IIHMR and its other campuses from IIHMR
University or vice v ersa to assist any of the assignment s. This category of employee s is eligible for benefits as
mutually agreed upon by the management.
➢ Contracted and retainer employees: Contract employees are hired for a specific time. These may be hired either
for the Project or other support/ teaching staff, contracts of these employees m ay be extended with mutual
consents. Such employees are appointed on consolidated or break up salary structure as pe r the need o f IIHMR.
For contract and retainer staff, terms and conditions mentioned in the appointment letter shall be applicable and
binding.
➢ Consultants: Consultants are persons hired to conduct specific project -related tasks and who have no ot her
responsibilities in IIHMR. Such per sons are likely to be specifically trained or experts. Consultants are paid on a
contractually stipulated basis and are not eligible for any employee benefits.
➢ Management of IIHMR may create more categories as and when needed, such as Adjunct /Visiting Faculty etc.

10

3.e. Procedure

While preparing the annual budget, every department shall submit its human resource budget stating existing, filled,
and unfilled posts. The campus head shall approve the annual staff budget

The employment function is centralized in the Human Resource Department and all-new hiring will be originated in
consultation with the President/Director, School Deans / head of the department s. The HR department will maintain
an up-to-date headcount that is approved by the President/Director and which indicates vacant and filled positions at
any given time. A vacancy may occur in campuses due to separation, demise, promotion , or expansion of the
activities. To fill an existing / new vacancy, the deans / departmental head will be required to prepare a note which
includes a Job description, desired qualification, experience and c ompetencies, while mentioning salary bracket
within the budget of the department/ project in writing and complete the employment requisition form.

After the approval o f requisition, the HR department invites applications through formal/ informal process and does
scrutiny of the CVs as per the requirement stated in the requisition form and further hand over to the
President/Director/ Deans/HOD. On receipt o f shortlisted CVs from President/Director /Deans/HOD, the HR
department sends invites to the candidates for the interview through written modes of communications.

3.f. Honorarium and transportation to the panel of external experts for conducting Interviews

S No Honorarium, Transportation, Stay and
travel expenses for external expert
Amount
1. Half day with transportation (local) 2500+ 750
2. Full Day with transportation (local) 5000+ 750
3. Half day with transportation
(Outstation)
2500+ reimbursement of train/ air fare + accommodation
and food at IIHMR Guest House+ pick up & drop.
4. Full day with transportation
(Outstation )
5000+ reimbursement of train/ air fare + accommodation
and food at IIHMR Guest House+ pick up & drop.
If transportation is arranged by IIHMR, charges of transportation will not be given to the external expert.

3.g. Reimbursement of Travel Expenses for Attending Interviews for outstation
candidate only
Grade Entitlement
X and X1 Air Economic class/ II AC returns rail or equivalent on the production of tickets
A1 to A5 & S1 to S5 II AC returns rail or equivalent on the production of ticket
A6, S6 & S7 III AC returns rail or equivalent on the production of ticket

In case, a candidate does not submit tickets at the time of the interview, a normal fare of the shortest route will be
paid.
No local expenses including stay, lodging, or conveyance will be provided for attending i nterviews. IIHMR may
provide a Guest House subject to availability

11

3.h. Staff Selection Process:

Staff selection is the process of determining from among the applicants which one best meets the requirements of
the job. The HR department shall be responsible for the coordination and implementation of the selection process.
A panel shall be constituted as per the cadre of the hiring position.

➢ selection committee shall consist of the following:
• For President/Director’s selection: Search committe e (Constituted by the Trustee Secretary of sponsoring
body) and Chairperson of the University
• For Dean/faculty selection: Chairperson/Trustee Secretary, President/Director, Dean of School, Subject
Expert (External)
• For Vice-President/Director /Registrar’s / General Manager /Dy. Registrar /COE/CF AO selection:
Chairperson, President/Director, Expert (External)
• For HOD’s selection: Vice-President/Director, Registrar, HR Head, Expert (Internal/External)
• For research staff: Dean of Schools, PI/ faculty, HR Head
• For support staff: HOD, HR Head, Expert (Internal)

3.i. Outcomes of the selection Process:
The HR department wil l share t he outcomes o f the selection committee for the position of President/Director to
Chairperson and for the position of Deans, Vice -President/Director, Registrar and HOD will be shared with
Chairman/Trustee Secretary through President/Director for final approval.

For ot her positions, HR departments will share the selection committee’s opinion with the President/Director for
final app roval. Appointments of President/Director, Vice President, Registrar , CoE ,CFAO Dy. Registrar and General
Manager will be sign by the Chairperson/Trustee Secretary. All o ther appointments will be sign ed by the
President/Director.

3.j. Power of Appointment:

➢ Appointments to th e posts of President/Director shall be made by the C hairperson/Trustee Secretary of the
IIHMR University and IIHMR and approved by the Management board of the IIHMR Society.
➢ Appointments to the posts of Dean, Faculty, Registrar, General Manager, CF AO, Dy. Registrar, COE, Manager
(grade A1 -A4 and S1 to S4) shall be made by the President/Director with the approval of Trustee Secretary
/Chairpersonof the IIHMR /IIHMR University.
➢ Appointments to other posts shall be done by t he President/Director on recommendation from the selection
committee.

4. JOINING PROCESS

IIHMR realizes upon the accuracy of the information contained in the employment application and the accuracy of
the other data presented throughout the hiring process and employment. Any misrepresentations, falsifications , or

12

material omissions in any of this inform ation or data may result in the exclusion of the individual from further
consideration for employment.

The HR department will initat e reference checks of new hires immediately after releasing the offer. The reference
check would be done through a third party and will comprise education, professional background and credit check
through Cibil report. Status of any availed loans,criminal case s if any ongoing are required to be decelared by
employees. This decelaration will be obtained by the HR department as part of candidate application formand mya
be reviewed during the interview process by the interviewing panel.

4.a. Purpose

➢ To procure and verify documents pertaining to employee’s overall background.
➢ To provide the new employee with the necessary infrastructure to carry out his day -to-day activities and build
his/her connection with the institution

4.b. Joining formalities

➢ It i s essential that at the time of joining, the e mployee submits a complete set of his testimonials / other
certificates as mentioned in the Of fer Letter. The HR specifically examines the originals and verify photocopies
accordingly.
➢ Every employee will be assigned a unique Employee Code, wh ich will be us ed for all i nternal transactions,
identification, correspondence, and registration to the Attendance Recording Machine.
➢ HR will ensure that the following is taken care of:
• Planning and execution of the onboarding process before joining the employee.
• Joining formalities as specified in the Joining Checklist.
• Declaration of dependents and nominees.
• PF, Gratuity and ESIC nomination forms duly filled.
• Website Profile and HRMIS Update in software.
• Arrangement of equipped workstation provided with other administrative needs
• Arrange temporary staying arrangements, in case of relocation
• Induction program, which gives a fair idea of IIHMR and its work processes, interfacing departments/colleagues
and a detailed brief on reporting relationships, job responsibilities.
• Insurance Policy coverage for GMP, GPA and ESIC as per applicability.
• The Accounts department will facilitate complete formalities for opening salary account.

➢ On the day of joining, the HR will facilitate to the new entrant:
• Appointment Letter and TOR, Policy Manual,
• I-card, V-card, and Library Card (within a week of joining),
• Workstation with Desktop/Laptop, Printer, Pen Drive, Stationery Kit, intercom and email/ ext ension list as
per the nature of the work.
• Email Id, Username and password

13

4.c. Re-Location
New employees joining IIHMR, who are relocating from their earlier location of work or from their hometown (in
case o f fresh entrants in the work world) will be supported in meeting out t heir expenses incurred due to
relocation and be provided following assistance for relocation;
• Travel fare (onward journey only) reimbursement for a family from their earlier location (only outstat ion)
will be reimbursed on production of bills as per the following:
GRADE JOINING EXPENSES
X and X1 Air-Economy class w ith shortage route fare or equivalent for
self, spouse and two dependents. Subject to one-month basic
salary or actual whichever is less.
A1 to A5 and S1 to S5 II AC rail fare or equivalent for self, spouse and two dependents .
Subject to one-month basic salary or actual whichever is less.
A6, S6 and S7 III AC rail fare or equivalent for self, spouse and two dependents .
Subject to one-month basic salary or actual whichever is less.

• Employees will have to claim the joining expense within the first month of the joining at IIHMR by applying the
requisition along with the original tickets to the concerned HR Department.
• They will also be eligible for relocation/ transportation expenses (outstation only) equivalent to their one -month
basic salary on the production of bills or actual whichever is less.
• Staff working on consolidated salary shall be paid relocation allowances equivalent to a first basic salary of
his/her respective grade. All project sta ff will be guided by the project norms and app roval will be done by the
President/Director in consultation with the Dean/School Dean/Project In charge/Principal Investigator.

4.d. Joining Leave
In case of transfer:
• Applicability: transfer cases, new joining employees who are joining from outstation beyond 250 kms
distance.
• 7 days joining leave including travel period, can be availed within a month from date of joining
In case of new joining:
• 7 days of joining leave (travel not applicable) can be availed within a month from the date of joining.
Applicable for an employee who got the appointment for more than six month’s periods.
• Initial temporary accommodation in the guest house for up to 2 weeks ( 15 days). A written request (via e -
mail) to the HR Head regarding booking o f accommodation is to be provi ded by the prospective joiner well in
advance (preferably, along with the acceptance to a job offer) to ensure t he necessary arrangements in a
timely and smooth manner.

14

5. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR THE VARIOUS POSITIONS

5.a. Academic Staff

Assistant Professor- Grade A3 & A4
Essentials:
• First Class Master’s Degree in Business Management/Administration / in a relevant management related
discipline or first class in two-year full -time PGDM declared equivalent by AIU/ ac credited by the
AICTE/UGC;
• Ph.D. or MD or Fellow of the Indian University of Management or a University recognized by
UGC/AICTE/MCI. Candidates with JRF/NET shall be eligible to apply for the position o f Assistant Professor
in Grade A3.
Desirable:
• Teaching, research, industrial and /or professional experience in a reputed organization;
Papers presented at Conferences and/or published in refereed journals

➢ Associate Professor-Grade A2
➢ Essentials:
• Consistently good academic record with at least 55% marks (or an equivalent grade in a point scale
wherever grading system i s followed) in Master’s Degree in Business Management / Administration / i n a
relevant managem ent relate d discipline or first class in two years full-time PGDM declared equivalent by
AIU / recognized by the AICTE / UGC;
• Ph.D. or MD or Fellow of the Indian University of Management or University recognized by AICTE and
declared equivalent by the AIU.
• A minimum of eight years experience of teach ing/industry/research / professional at managerial level
excluding the period spent for obtaining the research degree.
OR
• In the event , the candidate is from industry and the profession, the following requirements shall
constitute as essential requirements:
• A minimum of 10 -year experience of teaching industry/research/profession, out of which, five years must
be at the level of Assistant Professor or equivalent excluding the period spent for obtaining the research
degree. The candi date should have Professional work experience, which is significant and can be
recognized at national /international level as equivalent to Ph.D. and 10 years managerial experience in
industry/profession of wh ich at least five years should be at th e level comparable t o that of
lecturer/assistant professor.
• Should have guided Ph.D. research of at least three Research scholars.
Desirables
Without prejudice to the above, the following conditions may be considered desirable:
• Teaching, research industrial and/or professional experience in a reputed organization;
• Published work, such as research papers, patents filed / obtained, books and/or technical reports; and
• Experience of guiding the project work/ dissertation of PG/ Research students or supervising R&D projects
in the industry.

15

➢ Professor- Grade A1
➢ Essentials:
• Consistently go od a cademic record with at least 55% marks (or a n equivalent grade in a point scale
wherever grading system is followed) in Master’s Degree in Business Management / Administration / in a
relevant discipline or consistently good academic record with at least 55% marks (or an equivalent grade in
a point scale wherever grading system is followed) in two year full -time PGDM declared equivalent by AIU
/ recognized by the AICTE/UGC;
• Ph.D. or M D or Fellow of the Indian University of Management or University recognized by AICTE and
declared equivalent by the AIU.
• A minimum of 10 years’ experience of teaching/ industry/ research/professional out of which five years
must be at th e level o f Associate Profes sor or equivalent excluding the period spent for obtain ing the
research degree.
OR
• In the event, the candidate is from industry and the profession, the following shall constitute as essential:
• The candidate should have profession al work experience which is significant and c an be recognized at
national / International level as equivalent to Ph. D. and twelve years’ managerial experience in industry /
profession of which at least eight years should b e at least at a level comparable to that of Associate
Professor.
• Should have guided research of at least five Research projects/studies.

Desirables
Without prejudice to the above, the following conditions may be considered desirable:
• Teaching, research, and/or professional experience in a reputed organization.
• Published work, such as research papers, patents filed/obtained, books and / or technical reports;
• Experience in guiding the project work/ dissertation of PG/ Research Students or supervising R&D
projects in industry;
• Demonstrated leadership in pl anning and organizing academic, research, industrial and/or p rofessional
activities; and
• Capacity to undertake/lead sponsored R&D consultancy and related activities.

➢ President/Director - Grade X and X1
Essentials
• Qualification same a s those prescribed fo r the post of profes sor in the relevant discipline with a
minimum of fifteen years experience of postgraduate teaching/industry/ research.
OR
• For candidates from Industry/ Profession:
• Qualification is the same as those prescribed for the post of Professor from indus try/ profession stream
with fifteen years experience of postgraduate te aching/research out of which five years must be at the
level or Professor in the relevant discipline.

16

Desirables
• Without prejudice to the above, the following conditions may be considered desirable:
• Administrative experience o f 10 years in a senior level responsible position in the Industry/ professional
institution.

IIHMR Management may modify eligibility criteria as and when needed without any no tification in exceptional
cases.

IIHMR is unique i n the sense that it is a pioneer to off er sectoral specialization integrated with post -graduate
management degrees in the country. Several of the subjects/ modules are included i n the curriculum for which
there is no read y supply market of human resource s, especially in the faculty cadre. To cater to the uniqueness
of IIHMR in the domain of healthcare in general and public health in particular, Medical Professionals with
minimum MBBS and MD degrees in Community health, Professionals with MPH and MHA may be considered.
This will be applicable in other unique academic programs offered by IIHMR.

5.b. Support and Research Staff

Registrar/General Manager/ CFAO/ DY. Registrar/ CoE /Se nior Manag er / Managers (G rades S1,
S1A, S2, S3 & S4):
Postgraduates with p rofessional qualification s and exposure in the relevant fields. Exceptional cases without
Professional qualification may also be considered.

Sr. Research Officers/ Project Manage r/ Research Officer s/Project Officer (Grade A 5 and A6):
Post-Graduate in Man agement/Social Sciences/ Economics/Demogra phy/Finance/ Public Administration and
Accountancy.
Addition to the qualification such as M.Phil ./MPH/MHA/MBBS/MPS/Ph.D. will lead towards the level of the
Senior Research Officer in grade A5.

Senior officer/Officer/ Executive (Grade S5 and S6)
Graduate (BCA/PDGCA/BBA/B.Lib. or other relevant subjec t)/Postgraduate/ MCA/CS/ICWA/ CA/M.Lib./ MBA /
(Management /Finance/ HR/IT/Communications or other relevant subjects)

Supervisors/Accountants /Stenographer/Typist/Assistant (Grade S7):
Graduates in Social Science, Commerce, General Science and Arts Graduate with relevant technical
qualification.

IIHMR Management may modify eligibility criteria as and when needed without any notification.

17

6. SALARY AND ALLOWANCES
6.a. Grade and Pay Scale:

Grade Pay Scale
X 120000-12000-180000-22000-290000
X-1 80000-8000-120000-15000-195000
A-1 60000-8000-100000-15000-175000
A-2 45000-6000--75000-12000-135000
A-3 37400-5000-62400-10000-112400
A-4 26000-3000-41000-6000-71000
A-5 12000-600-15000-900-19500-1200-25500
A-6 10000-500-12500-700-16000-900-20500
S-1 51000-6000-75000-12000-135000
S-1A 40000-4000-60000-7200-96000-14400-124800
S-2 34000-2720-47600-4760-71400-8568-114240
S-3 24000-1920-33600-50400-6048-80640-12096-104832
S-4 21000-1680-29400-44100-5292-70560-10584-91728
S-5 & A-5 16000-960-20800-1664-29120-2912-43680-5242-64648
S-6&A-6 12800-768-16640-1331-23295-2330-34945-4193-55910
S-7 11200-672-14560-1165-20385-2039-30580
No Dearness Allowance is payable to any grades since it has been merged in the basic pay.

6.b. House Rent Allowance
➢ HRA is fixed at 30% of basic salary at Jaipur and 45% of basic salary at Delhi, Bangalore and Kolkata.
➢ Norms for the employees, living in accommodation provided/leased by IIHMR:
• Employee staying in the campus will be charge d a rent @ 15% of basic salary at Jaipur and 22.5% of
basic salary at Delhi, Bangalore and Kolkata.
• Employee staying on the campus on sharing basis will be charged rent @ 10% of the basic salary from
both the employees.
• The employee will be a licensee and execute a power of attorney in favor of an officer of IIHMR
authorized for the purpose.
• The maintenance expenses (as determined from time to time b y IIHMR) of the house and housing
complex will be recovered from the employee.
• Whenever the rent is paid by IIHMR for leased accommodation and if it is higher than the payable of
the HRA, such excess amount is recoverable from the employee.
• The accommodation must be vacated by the employee within 30 days in case of transfer or separation
of employment of IIHMR.
• All rules and regulations of the document titled "Rules for Allotment of Residential Accommodation"
and the amendments from time to time shall be applicable and binding on the employee.

18

6.c. Transport Allowance
➢ Transport allowance granted to an employee to meet his/her expenditure for the purpose of commuting
between the place of his/her residence and the place of his/her duty.
➢ Transport Allowance is payable to employees in the grade X,X1,S1 TO S7 & A1 TO A4 at the following :
• X&X1 Rs.4500.00per month
• S1,S1A,S2 &S3 Rs. 6000.00 per month
• S4 Rs.5000.00 per month
• A1 to A4 Rs.4500.00 per month
• A5 & S5 Rs. 3000.00 per month
• A6 & S6 Rs. 2000.00 per month
• S7 Rs. 1500.00 per month

Matter having implications on the income tax of the per son arising out of Transportation Allowance shall
be the responsibility of the person concerned.

6.d. Medical Allowance, Group Mediclaim Policy, Group Personal Accident and ESIC:
IIHMR has a system of Medical Allowance @5% of the basic salary . Apart from above, employees will al so have
the benefit of Group Medical Insurance for self, spouse and two children as per available p olicy.
The sum assured of Mediclaim and GPA (as applicable) is as follows:
Policy Grade SA
GMP X and X1 800000
A1 to A4 and S1 to S4 600000
A5 toA6 and S5 to S7 500000
GPA X and X1 1000000
A1 to A4 and S1 to S4 700000
A5 toA6 and S5 to S7 700000

In case of staff does not want to cover in Mediclaim and GPA, he/she may inform in writing HR. IIHMR will pay
fixed Special Allowances in lieu of Mediclaim and GPA @ 500/- per month subject to the President/Director
approval.

Mediclaim amount of Rs.650/ -PM (S5-S7) and Rs.8 50/-PM(A1-A4 and S1 -S4) shall be deducted from CTU for
employee appointed on consolidated salary.
Any request for register or withdrawal of registration may be given to HR I writing at the time of renewal of the
insurances ,Mid year request shall not be accepted.
Employees who are covered under ESIC benefit will not be entitled to Mediclaim and GPA
benefit.

IIHMR shall cover employees under GPA and GMP within 30 days from the date of joining.
Matters having implications on the Income Tax arising out of Medical Allowance shall be the responsibility of
the concerned person.

19

6.e. Books & Periodicals and Dress & Uniform Allowance
The following categories of Academic staff are eligible for Books& Per iodical and support staffs are eligible f or
Dress & Uniform allowance as per following:

Grade: X, X1 Rs.3500.00 per month
Grade: A1 Rs.6000.00 Per month
Grade A2 &S1 Rs.5000.00 per month
Grade S1A Rs.4000.00 per month
Grade S2 Rs.3000.00 per month
Grade: A3 & S4 Rs.2000.00 Per month
Grade S3 Rs.2500.00 per month
Grade: A4 ,A5 & S5 Rs.1500.00 per month
Grade: A6 & S6 Rs.1000.00 per month

6.f. Grade Pay Allowance
Grade pay Allowance is payable to employees in the scale of X, X1, A1 to A6 & S1 to S7 at the following rates:
GRADE AMOUNT IN PM
X and X1 20000
A1 18000
A2 15000
A3 10000
A4 8000
S1 15000
S1A 13000
S2 12000
S3 11000
S4 7000
S5 & A5 6000
S6& A6 5000
S7 2000

6.g. Academic Allowance
Academic Allowance is payable to employees on a scale of A1 to A4 at the following rates:
GRADE AMOUNT IN PM
X, X1 and A1 Rs.12000
A2 and A3 Rs.8000
A4 Rs.4000

20

6.h. Driver and Helper Allowance
Driver allowance is applicable for support staff and Helper allowance is for Academic Staff at the following
rates:
GRADE AMOUNT IN PM
X, X1, A1, A2, A3 and A4 2000
S1 and S1A, S2, S3, S4 2000

6.i. Leave Travel Assistance:
Leave Travel Assistance is applicable to X, X1, A1 to A6 & S1 to S6 grade of IIHMR. A person can avail LTA only
after one-year service with IIHMR. Eligibility for LTA is once in two years. It will be calculated at the rate of 10%
of the total basic salary drawn by the employee in the last financial year. To avail of this, the employee has to
be on earned leave for at least 6 days. First/subsequent LTA can be taken after completion of one year from the
previous availed LTA as per block year effective from the joining date of the individual. Approval for LTA is to be
taken by the employee at least 30 days in advance. However, the dates may be changed according t o the needs
of IIHMR. An employee on probation is not eligible for LTA.

Matters having implications on the Income Tax arising out of LTA sh all be the responsibility of the person
concerned.
Process:
For applying LTA employees shall apply to the HR depa rtment through his/her reporting supervisor. After that
HR shall check the eligibility and entitlement of the employee and based on that HR will issue a sa nction letter
to the employee.
Employee may submit a request to the accounts department along with the sa nction letter for the advance for
LTA which is normally 75% of the total eligibility amount. For settling LTA advance, an employee shall submit all
bills (only travel) to the accounts department within 07 days f rom the date of return from LTA. The accounts
department will settle LTA amount as per the eligibility.

6.j. Provident and Pension Fund:

Coverage of employees under Provident Fund will be i n accordance with t he rules of EPFO or BPFT as
applicable. While onboarding, HR department will process all statutory requirements as per the norms of PF.

6.k. Gratuity:
Gratuity is payable in accordance with the Gratuity Act, 1972.
A person becomes eligible for Gratuity only after completion of 5 years of continued services

21

7. LEAVE POLICY

7.a. For permanent staff and employees on contract break-up:

➢ Earned Leave (EL)

Earned Lea ve (EL) will be computed at the rate of 24 days for every year calculated on a quarterly basis from
April to March. Those joining service s at any time after the 1 st day of April will have the ir EL computed
proportionately from the date of joining. EL can be availed only four times a year. Accumulated EL beyond 40
days can be en-cashed on the basic pay based on March basic salary every year against adjustment of equivalent
days of accumulated leave. A maximum of 40 days EL shall be carried over to the subsequent year. The Earned
Leave cannot be clubbed with RH or CL. Sundays and holidays that fall during the spell of the EL will also be
treated as leave. The decision to sanction the leave is purely at the discretion of the Management.
It is expected that employees plan their EL judiciously to avoid any dislocation to th e smooth functioning of
IIHMR.

➢ Contingency Leave (CL)

Contingency Leave (CL) is meant to meet situation s arising out of sickness or any other personal contingencies.
Maximum CL allowed during a financial year is 1 0 days. Allotment 5 CLs half y early, in beginning A pril and
October month every year. proportionate CL will be credited to a new joining employee with effect from his/her
date of Joining. The maximum period for which CL can be taken is not more than 3 days at a time, RH, Holidays
and weekly offs falling during the spell of CL will not be counted as CL. Exceeding three days of CL will be treated
EL a s per available balance or LWP. RH, Holidays an d weekly offs falling during the spell of EL/LWP will be
considered as a continuous leave. CL cannot be clubbed with any kind of leave like Earned Leave, Paternity Leave
and Maternity Leave. An un-availed portion of CL will lapse at the end of FY.

➢ Maternity Leave

The provision of maternity benefits shall be provided to a female employee on the production of a medical
certificate for 12 weeks.

➢ Paternity Leave

• The Paternity Leave will be granted to male employees, for a maximum of two weeks, for each childbirth if
an employee has work ed for one year with the organization. Paternity leave c annot be combined with any
other kind of leave and can be availed only in two blocks within a month from the birth of the child.

7.b. Leaves Applicable on Contractual Staff (Consolidated Salary Appointment)

➢ Contingency Leave (CL)

Contingency Leave (CL) is meant to meet situations arising out of sickness or any other personal contingencies .
Maximum CL allowed during a financial year is 1 5 days. Allotment 7.5 CLs hal f-yearly, in beginning April and

22

October month every year. proportionate CL will be credited to a new joining employee with effect from his/her
date of Joining. The maximum period for which CL can be taken is as pe r available balance at a time, RH,
Holidays and weekly offs falling during the spell of CL will not be counted as CL. Apparently, these wil l be
counted as continued leave, if there is no leave balance available with an Individual. In case of LWP all holidays
falling between the LWP period will be counted as LWP. Un-availed portion of CL will be lapsed at the end of FY.

➢ Maternity Leave
The pr ovision of maternity benefits shall be provided to female employee on production of
medical certificate for a period of 12 weeks.

➢ Paternity Leave
• The Paternity Leave will be granted to male employees, for a maximum of two weeks, for each
childbirth if an employee has worked for one y ear with the organization. Paternity leave c annot be
combined with any other kind of leave and can be avai led only in two blocks within a month from the
birth of the child.
7.c. Others

➢ Compensatory Off (CO)
• Staff falling under the grade-S5-S7 may avail compensatory off if they are working on a week off/ closed
holiday due to any office assignment . The supervisor will approve leave while mentionin g the reason
for attending office on a non-working day. CO shall be consumed within a week time o f the
compensatory workday. CO is not applicable while on the official tour.
Process (For Official Tours & Leaves)

A leave application form signed by self and approved by the reporting authority is required to be submitted to the HR
Department well in advance. The same is applied to the tour program. One copy of Tour Program is to be submitted
to A/C Dept. and other one to HR Department. However, in case of unforeseen circumstances, one can submit t he
application, post facto. It is also advised to keep t he colleagues informed of any planned leave to ensure the smooth
functioning in employee’s absence. The decision to sanction the leave is purely at the discretion of the management.

• President/Director: Leave applications & tour Programs shall be approved by Chairman.
• Faculty: Faculty’s leave applications & tour programs will be forwarded by School Dean to the
President/Director for final approval. President/Director Office will send to HR department for information and
record keeping.
• Registrar/ Dy. Registrar an d HODs : Leave applications & tour Programs shall be a pproved by the
President/Director.
• Research Staff: Research staff will take approval from his/her PI and will also inform to Dean Research if going
for leave for longer duration more than 03 days.
• Support Staff: Support staff will seek approval from their HODs.

23

8. TRAVEL/DAILY ALLOWANCE

Grade Travel Eligibility
X, X1, A1 to A3, S1 to S3 & S1-A Air Economy Class or equivalent
A4, A5 & S4, S5 2nd AC Rail or equivalent
A6, S6 & S7 3rd AC Rail or equivalent

• Reservation charges– For seat/ sleeper berth are reimbursable on production of bills/receipt.
• Tatkal Seva charges – Reimbursement allowed i n emergent circumstances only for Railway journeys
undertaken for official purposes.
• Internet/e-ticketing charges– Reimbursable for the tickets booked through the website of Indian Railways.
• Cancellation charges- For official journeys cancelled in public interest, cancellation and reservation charges
are reimbursable.
• All the official air/train/bus tickets should be booked through the concerned Administration Department.

For outstation official travel of Staff: Per Diem Rates for stay & food expenses

Grade X and X1
For Metros /Kolkata/
Delhi/Chennai/Mumbai / Bengaluru/
Hyderabad/ Ahmedabad
Per diem (Flat rate) Rs. 2000/- per day
without bills. No incidentals will be payable

Maximum Per diem Rs .4000/- per day on production of Bills for stay
& food charges and Rs.750/ - per day will be payable as incidental
charges (fixed) without bill.
State Capitals other
then metros cities
Per diem (Flat rate) Rs. 2000/- per day
without bills. No incidentals will be payable.
Maximum per diem Rs. 4000/- per day on producti on of bills for stay
& food charges and Rs. 750/- per day will be payable as incidental
charges (fixed) without bill.
For all other places Per diem (Flat rate) Rs.2000/- per day
without bills. No incidentals will be payable.
Maximum per diem Rs . 3000/- per day on production of Bills for stay
& food charges and Rs. 750/- per day will
be payable as incidental charges (fixed) without bill.

24

Grade A1 to A3, S1 to S3 & S1-A
For Metros Kolkata/Delhi/
Chennai/Mumbai/Bengaluru/
Hyderabad/Ahmedabad
Per diem (Flat rate) Rs. 1350/- per day
Without bills. No incidentals will be payable.

Maximum Per diem Rs. 3200/- per day on production of Bills for stay &
food charges an d Rs. 300/- per da y will be payable as incidental
charges (fixed) without bill.
State Capitals other
then metros cities
Per diem (Flat rate) Rs. 1350/- per day
Without bills. No incidentals will be payable.

Maximum per diem Rs. 2400/- per day on production of bills for stay &
food charges and Rs. 300/- per day will be payable as incidental
charges (fixed) without bill. For all other places Per diem (Flat rate) Rs.1350/- per day
without bills. No incidentals will be payable.

Maximum per diem Rs. 1800/- per day on production of Bills for stay &
food charges and Rs. 300/- per day will b e payable as incidental
charges (fixed) without bill.
For Grade A4 & S4
For Metros Kolkata/Delhi/
Chennai/Mumbai/Bengaluru/
Hyderabad/Ahmedabad
Per diem (Flat rate) Rs. 1100/- per day without bills. No incidentals will
be payable.

Maximum per diem Rs. 2400/- per day on production of Bill s or stay &
food charges and Rs. 300/- per day will be payable as incidental
charges (fixed) without bill.
State Capitals Per diem (Flat rate) Rs. 1100/- per day
without bills. No incidentals will be payable.

Maximum per diem Rs. 1800/- per day on production of Bills for stay &
food charges and Rs. 300/- per day will be payable as incidental
charges (fixed) without bill.
For all other places Per diem (Flat rate) Rs. 1100/- per day
without bills. No incidentals will be payable.

Maximum per diem Rs. 1350/- per day on production of Bills for stay &
food charges and Rs. 300/- per day will be payable as incidental
charges (fixed) without bill.

25

Grade A5, A6, S5 & S6
For Metros Kolkata/Delhi/
Chennai/Mumbai/Bengaluru/
Hyderabad/Ahmedabad
Per diem (Flat rate) Rs. 900/- per day
without bills. No incidentals will be payable.

Maximum per diem Rs. 1800/- per day on production of Bills for stay &
food charges and Rs. 225/- per day will be payable as incidental
charges (fixed) without bill.
State Capitals Per diem (Flat rate) Rs. 900/- per day
without bills. No incidentals will be payable.

Maximum per diem Rs. 1350/- per day on production of Bills for stay &
food charges and Rs. 225/- per day will be payable as incidental
charges (fixed) without bill.
For all other places Per diem (Flat rate) Rs. 900/- per day
without bills. No incidentals will be payable.

Maximum per diem Rs. 900/- per day on production of Bills for stay &
food charges and Rs. 225/- per day will be payable as incidental
charges (fixed) without bill.

Grade S7
For Metros Kolkata/Delhi/
Chennai/Mumbai/Bengaluru/
Hyderabad/Ahmedabad
Per diem (Flat rate) Rs. 700/- per day
without bills. No incidentals will be payable.

Maximum per diem Rs.1350/- per day on production of with bills for
stay & food charges and Rs. 150/- per day will be payable as incidental
charges (fixed) without bill.
State Capitals Per diem (Flat rate) Rs. 700/- per day
without bills. No incidentals will be payable.

Maximum per diem Rs. 900/- per day on production of bills for stay &
food charges and Rs. 150/- per day will be payable as incidental
charges (fixed) without bill.
For all other places Per diem (Flat rate) Rs. 700/- per day
without bills. No incidentals will be payable.

Maximum per diem Rs. 600/- per day on production of bills for stay &
food charges and Rs. 150/- per day will be payable as incidental
charges (fixed) without bill.

Travel between JPR-DEL-JPR, JPR -MUMBAI-JPR, JPR -CHANDIGARH-JPR, JPR -BHOPAL-JPR, JPR-LUCKNOW-JPR,
JPR-SHIMLA-JPR, from Delhi to Chandigarh, Bhopal, Punjab, Lucknow etc. and from Bangalore to all s outhern
state and Mumbai should be done by train to the ext ent possible. Wherever IIHMR is able t o provide

26

guesthouse facilities, the same must be availed. In case of guest house facilities avai led, o nly 50% of flat per
diem will be allowed.

• The above p er diem charge includes stay & food expenses. No other incidental expenses are payable. For
journey/travel time, only incidental expenses wi ll be payable at the rate of 40% of the above flat per diem
charges. Local travel within the city will be paid extra on actual undertaken by auto/Taxi/other public
transport.
• Outstation Travel continuous more than 60 days will be treated as deputation. P er Diem per month charges
while on deputation or transfer to field/project office will be calculated at the rate of 50% of basic salary per
month. In that case, local conveyance will be reimbursed as per actual.
• Per diem charges for within municipal/Delhi-NCR area will be as follows:
o Tour not exceeding 8 hrs - Nil
o Tour exceeding 8 hrs but not exceeding 12hrs - 70% of flat per diem
o Tour exceeding 12hrs - 100% of flat per diem
• Travelling and per diem charges are reimbursed or paid by project sponsoring agency on actual expenses
incurred and on production of actual bills of Travels; in that case travel and per diem charges may vary from
the above rates and will be applica ble as per project sanctioned budget, subject to approval of the Head of
the concerned Campus.

All official travel must be approved by the authority in approved format (Tour Programme) before start of t he
travel.
All the Travel bills are required to be submitted in approved format to Accounts Department within 3 days of
return from the tour.

9. CONVEYANCE REIMBURSEMENT
Personnel of IIHMR owning vehicles will be eligible for reimbursement of running expenses involved in use of
vehicles for the official work at the following rates:

Car Rs.10.00 per km. (For grade X, X1, A1 to A4 & S1 to
S4 only)

Scooter/Motorcycle Rs. 6.00 per km. (For all grades)

10. ANNUAL APPRAISAL and REVIEW

• INCREMENTS & PROMOTIONS

IIHMR has an increment and promotion system through 270-degree appraisal system. Grant of increment shall
be discretionary. Increments shall be granted only upon satisfaction of authorities a s to performance of the
employee. Increments will be on the basis of time scale prescribed and will normally be effected in April every
year. However, the time scale will not be a constraint for rewarding notable performances. IIHMR may also

27

reward good performance by provi ding in cash or in kind or otherwise. Those confirmed on regular basis on or
before 1 st October (i.e. six mont hs) shall be eligible for increment in April next year. Though, normally ,
increments will be granted to every person , poor performance or other negative factors may lead to increment
not being granted. A probationer will not be entitled to get increment during probationary period.
Increments for contractual staff is applicable after one-year completion from the date of joining.
IIHMR promotion policy is tuned to providing promotion/growth opportunities of its existing employees.
Promotion will be based on performance and suitability for the higher position.
Process

HR depa rtment initiates the process of annual a ppraisal every y ear in the month o f February in consultation
with the President/Director of the University/Institute. Appraisal forms a re sent t o all eligible employee of the
university/Institute through email with a request to fill and route it through supervisor for per formance review
and submit to the President/Director office. President/Director Office sends all the appraisal to HR Department
for consolidation of the data along with em ployee’s existing professional and educational information.HR
department prepares and submit to President/Director office for further direction.
For any additional increment or cash reward or Promotion, President/Director may align with the approved
annual budget and send his/her recommendation to Chairman/Trustee Secretary for approval.

11. PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT

IIHMR encourages participati on of its personnel in professional seminars/con ferences. Fo r participation in
external and internal programmers, prior approval of the President/Director is necessary. Normally, the
President/Director sponsors staff for such external developmental activities. Whenever a candidate is
sponsored for a long duration programme or a high cost short duration programme, the University/Instittue
would ask for a service bond to be signed.
Traveling allowance for participation in external programmes will be reimbursed as per the eligibility of the
person. Whenever a candidate is sponsored for programmes costing Rs. 25,000/ - or above, the employee shall
be liable to execute a service bond as agreed between employee concerned and management.
IIHMR encourages participa tion of its personnel in se minars/conferences. For participation in external and
internal programs, prior approval of the Campus Head is necessary.
Faculty and Research staff is encouraged to writ e publications and same will be awarded as per the publicati on
policy.
Individual consulting provision is available for faculty.

12. FAMILY WELFARE
IIHMR is firmly committed to the cause of planned and small family. E mployee having two children of which
one or bo th are fema les, will be provided a 16 years fixed deposit scheme in th e name of each girl child
equivalent to maturity value of Rs.40,000/. This facility will be extended after the younger child has attained the
age of 2 years as on 1st April 2000 or later. This scheme is applicable only if one of the spouse undergoes
permanent sterilization after one or two children.
Any employee wishing to for mally adopt a child will be paid Rs.400/ - p.m. till that child attains the age of 18
years.

28

Any childless couple, after five years of marriage, willing to undergo medical treatment for fertility will get 80%
of total expenses on production and approval of bills, subject to an overall limit of
Rs.25, 000/-.

13.SAFE WORKPLACE FOR WOMEN:

IIHMR is committed to follow the guidelines stipulated by Hon’ble Supreme Court of I ndia with regard to Sexual
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 and to providing work
environment that ensure s every employee is treated with dignity and respect and a fforded equitable
treatment. IIHMR is also committed to promoting a work environment that is conducive to the p rofessional
growth o f its employees and encourages equality of opportunity. IIHMR will not tolerate any form of sexual
harassment and is committed to take all necessary steps to ensure tha t its employees are not subjected to any
form of harassment. Internal Complaint Committee has been Constituted under the law who take cares of
related issues.

14.ATTENDANCE & WORKING HOURS
The official working hours are from 9:30 am to 5:30 pm including 30 minutes lunch break from 1:30 pm to 2:00
pm. However, timings may be relaxed to suit the needs and circumstances at the discretion of the Management.
Late coming is discouraged. In and out attendance is to be marked in the biometric thumb impression machine
available at the Reception. Employees reporting after 9 :45 am wi ll have to apply for Contingency Leave.
However, permission may be granted by the Heads of the Departments/concerned faculty in extraordinary cases
to meet the unforeseen circumstances or circumstances beyond one’s own control. However, in such cases
information of l ate coming should be given to the Head of the department s` along with Reception or HR
Department. Reaching office between 9 :30 am and 9:45 am, without any information , will be treated as late
coming and 3 such late comings wil l be treat ed as half day CL. T he staff going out for any work during office
hours should submit approved application to HR Department and mark an entry in the Staff in & out register at
Reception.

15.NOTICE PERIOD and EXIT FORMALITIES

The services of any person can be terminated or withdrawn by either side giving written no tice of 2 months in
grade X & X1, 1 months in grade A1 to A4 & S1 to S4 and 1 month in grade A5, A6, S5,S6 & S7.
In the absence of notic e as above, basic salary in lieu of notice period shall be payable. For those o n probation,
there will not be any requirement for notice, from either side, or for any payment in lieu of such notic e.
Like on -boarding, exit process is a lso very critical and needs to be facilitated effectively to ensure emp loyee’s
smooth transition from the institution.

Process:

Resignation Acceptance Letter: Subsequent to the approval on the resignation; HR will hand o ver the
Resignation Acceptance Letter to the departing employee. This letter w ill briefly apprise him/h er about charge
hand-over and settling the dues. In case of termination, the notice will comprise all above details.

29

• No Dues Certificate: HR will i ssue a No Dues Form in the name of the departing employee an d get it
signed by all t he concerned including th e immediate reporting authorit y. Based on this, HR will
establish that there are no such dues pending in his/her name or if any such dues are reflected, will be
reported while preparing the full & final statement.
• Charge Handover: The employee has to hand over all the belongings of IIHMR to the employee taking
charge. A formal handing over/ taking over charge with due paper work has to be done. It is the
responsibility of the i mmediate reporting authority t o ensure the proper charge handover; and confirm
HR about t he same before the full & fin al payment is processed. The charge handover mechanism
should be initiated at least 6 months before the due date of departure.
• Full and Final Settlement:
o The HR shall prepare and send t he full and final settlement statement of the empl oyee to the
Accounts incorporating and settling all the dues, notice per iod deficit days, advances, etc. with the
amount payable e.g. leave encashment, payment of gratuity, other allowance s, and salary of t he
last working month.
o The Accounts will hand over the full and final settlement cheque/ RTGS/ NEFT/DD to the employee
within a within a week period from the date of relieving.
• Relieving Letter and Letter for experience will be issued by HR on the date of relieving.
• PF and Pension Fund withdrawal / transfer forms will be given to the employee by HR and as per his/her
preference, process of withdrawal or transfer would be initiated. For withdrawal, employee will submit
copy of Aadhar Card, Form 16 and cancelled cheque.
• TDS Certificate w ill be for warded to the mail a ccount of an employee by Accounts at the end of the
financial year.
• Exit Interview
An Exit Interview is typically a meeting between HR head and a departing employee, usually who has voluntarily
resigned.
All such certificates shall be specifically addressed and shall not be issued as to whom so ever it may concern.
Purpose
• To gather data for improving working conditions and retaining employees.
• To determine and document the reasons of employees leaving the Institution.
• To provide an opportunity for the airing of unresolved grievances, and to provide constructive feedback
to improve effectiveness and/or efficiency of institution’s operations and/or employees’ quality of life.
Process:
1. The exit interview would be conducted by the HR on the date when the employee is being relieved.
2. During the time of Interview, sufficient privacy should be ensured.
3. The interview should be aimed at gathering the employee feedback about the reasons for his/her
leaving the institution, his/her opinions about policies/ systems/ procedures of the institution.
4. The Exit Interview Form must be filled by the departing employee.
5. Completed forms shall b e kept in the personnel records of the departing employee an d the HR will give
the quarterly feedback to the President/Director.

30

16.TRANSFERABILITY

Service of persons working in IIHMR is transferable. This would include transfer from one job to another , one
location t o another in the University or other campuses of the Society or transfer to any associate/sis ter
organizations. In case of transfer to any associate /si ster organization, the person sh all have the privilege of
continuity of employment and terms in the new organization shall not be less favorable.

17.DUAL EMPLOYMENT/EXTERNAL ASSIGNMENTS
While being in the service of IIHMR, no person shall take up an employment or assignment even on part time or
causal basis of whatever nature anywhere else, without the writ ten approval of the President/Director. Any
income or reimbursement received must be disclosed to IIHMR.

18.HOLIDAYS

IIHMR declares 11 days of paid holidays, inclusive of 3 optional holidays in a year. The optional holidays can be
availed from January to December and cannot be clubbed with Earned Leave.

List of closed and optional holidays will be given to the em ployee at t he time o f joining during the orientation.
List of holidays will be declared every year in the month of December for next year.

Weekly Off at IIHMR shall be Sunday, unless otherwise substituted. 2nd & 4th Saturday of every month shall be
closed.

19.RETIREMENT
Retirement policy provides a statement of IIHMR 's approach to employee retirement. IIHMR believes that a clear
policy will assist employees in pl anning for their retire ment, or for an extension of their working lives. Age of
retirement at IIHMR is 58 years . The retirement date is the end of the month follow ing the staff member's 58th
birthday. extension beyond t he superannuation can be consider ed for deserving employees, based on IIHMR
requirement. The process to be followed in either case will be as follows:
PROCEDURE:
HR shall notify to superannuating empl oyee at least 03 months Prior to his /her anticipated retirement date with a
copy to the head of the department of respective employee. HR will facilitate to employee for smooth departure.
• The HR will in form the HOD/ President/Director (in case of faculty ) to initiate discussion with superannuating
employee to facilitate departure in phased manner and handing over charge to the successor.
• The candidate being consider ed for ext ension wi ll be asked for his/ her willingness and terms of reference for
extension will be discussed for extension.
• An offer o f extension prepared on the basis of discussion will be given to the em ployee at least two months in
advance.

31

• Acceptance of the offer by t he superannuating employee would follow by a reappointment letter for an initial
period of one year in most cases.
• In case of extension to be extended beyond one year the same process will be followed.
• For the employees where no extensi on is on cards, there would be facilitation for smooth transition from work
life.

20.FACILITIES

➢ Housing

An o n-campus housing facility is avai lable for the employees (Jaipur only) . It can be availed by forwarding the
requisition for housing to the concerned HR Department. However, it depends on the availability.

Charges for staff quarters: As per HRA norms. Charges for Maintenance, water & electricity: time to time notified by
IIHMR management.

Norms for residing at staff quarters: "Rules for Allotment of Residential Accommodation" and the amendments from
time to time shall be applicable and binding on the employee

➢ Canteen

The canteen facility is open for the staff. The staff is required to have t heir lunch in the canteen. Also, they can get
meals fro m the canteen by paying on th e spot o r in advance. The staff is requested not to order anything
immediately prior to or in between any of the meals.

➢ Guest House(GH)

The staff can avail o f the Guest Hou se facility for their friends or relatives as per II HMR’s GH norms. They can send a
request to the Guest House In-charge/Admin Head and the facility may be provided based on the availability.

➢ Reception

The Reception at IIHMR is a 24 hours facility. Phone facility is available for all the staff for official communication.

➢ Lab and Library

Library, Lab and IT Assistance are available for all the staff during the working hou rs. Staff can apply for th e Library
membership, official Email Id, in ternet access a nd desktop/laptop, pen drive, da ta card (if eligibl e) during the
orientation.

32

Salary Disbursement

The employees of IIHMR are required to open their A/C with any of the HDF C Bank Branches or as specified by the
Management. Salary is directly credited to t he employee Account. Employees c an seek assistance f rom the
concerned Accounts Department for opening a bank account.

21. INDIVIDUAL CONSULTING FOR STAFF IN GR.X, X1, A1 to A4
Individual consult ing pr ovision is available for academic sta ff in Grade s X, X 1, A1 to A4 as per the rules and
regulations governing this provision at IIHMR. Normally, a consulting provision will be made for 30 days in a financial
year on sharing on two third basis.
Process: Faculty may apply to President/Director along with the consulting form and consultancy details for approval.
An approved copy of consulting form and agreement with the tour program shall be shared with Accounts and HR
departments for record and necessary action.

22. INTERPRETATIONS
On any interpretation of matters contained in this manua l or otherwise, the decision of the Management or Board of
Management shall be final.

23. DISCIPLINE:
Every employee of IIHMR shall perform his duties under strict discipline keeping in view the dignity and decorum of
IIHMR.

24. DEFINITION:
• Staff means " persons employed by IIHMR".
• Year means the "12 months of a calendar year from 1st January to 31st December".
• Financial year means "the period of 12 months starting from 1st April to 31st March”.
• Management means the "Management Board/Board of Management".
• Appointing Authority means the " Management Board /Board of Management or its nominee"

25. INCOME TAX AND OTHER TAXES
All matter s of taxes, where central state or local, applicable to an employee will be the responsibility o f the
concerned person. IIHMR will deduct and deposit the same as and when required by such authorities.

26. LOAN SCHEME:
IIHMR provide loan to different categories of persons working at IIHMR on reasonable interest rate. These are
provided as per the guidelines issue d from time to time. Sanction of loan is wholly on the discretion of t he
President/Director of IIHMR.

27. PROFESSIONAL CODE OF CONDUCT FOR SMOOTH FUNCTIONING & COHESIVE ENVI RONMENT AT IIHMR

• Employees should maintain a professional wor k environment keeping team spirit, mutual respect and trust of
utmost importance.

33

• Employees must come clean, well-groomed and inappropriate formal attire.
• Employees should keep office premises neat and clean, dispose of waste items in dustbins only and if they find
any waste lying on the floor then they should volunteer or immediately ask the Housekeeping Department.
• Employees should not waste the electricity, switch off all the electrical equipment and shut down the computers
when not in use. Remember, it is for the individual and nations benefit.
• Employees should not waste paper, water or other green resources in order to boost eco-friendly practices.
• Maintain a balanced approach in personal and professional life.
• Employees should keep their personal belongings and valuables in lock and key. IIHMR is n ot responsible for any
theft or loss.
• Employees are not allowed to smoke at their workstations, they may use the allocated smoking zone.
• Drugs and alcohol are strictly prohibited in the Campus.
• Employees are not allowed to carry any kind of arms and ammunition to the workplace.

Every employee of IIHMR is expected to perform his/her duties under policy guidelines keeping in view the dignity
and decorum of IIHMR.

28. CONTACT PERSON

For any quer y or emergency that arises at IIHMR or in the field, staff m ay contact the concerned Administration
Department or Vice President, IIHMR.

29. CONCLUSIONS

The provisions contained above, in this policy Manual, are mere guidelines and not exhaustive. In the event of a ny
dispute arising out of, or pertaining to , or related to these rules, the decisi on of th e Appointing Authority shall be
final. Similarly, for the contingencies not covered by these provisions, the decision of the Appointing Authority shall
be final. The Appointing authority reserves the absolute right to change, vary, add or delete an y provision contained
herein above at any stage and an employee shall not be entitled to raise any gru dge against it. All legal matters will
be dealt with within the Jurisdiction of the Jaipur High Court only.

30. FORMS AND FORMATS:
All prescribed forms and formats related to various applications are annexed. Following are the details of Annexures:
Annexure 1 - Joining Formalities
Annexure 2 - Appraisal and Annual Activities
Annexure 3 - Exit Formalities
Annexure 4 - Others
