HR POLICY
&
SERVICE RULES
(With effect from 1st April 2015 & updated as on 24th January 2023)

To be reviewed at the end of the year

Indian Institute of Management Raipur
Atal Nagar, P. O. - Kurru (Abhanpur),
Raipur – 493 661, Chhattisgarh

HR POLICY
&
SERVICE RULES
(With effect from 1st April 2015 & updated as on 24th January 2023)

To be reviewed at the end of the year

© Indian Institute of Management Raipur
This work is subject to copyright. All rights are reserved by IIM Raipur, whether the whole or part of the material is concerned,
specifically the rights of translation, reprinting, reuse of illustration, recitation, broadcasting, reproduction on microfilms or in
any other physical way, and transmission or information storage and retrieval, electronic adaptation, computer software, or by
similar or dissimilar methodology now known or hereafter developed.

Preface

These Rules and Regulations have been prepared for the Indian Institute of Management Raipur.

Pursuant to the decision of constitution of a committee for preparation of HR Manual & Service
Rules, the Committee held several meetings to formulate the methodology of preparation of the HR
Manual & Service Rules in a systematic way. The Committee decided that the Manual will be
evolved gradually by collecting the following inputs.

a. A thorough study of HR / Administrative / Academic Procedure & Manual of all the six old IIMs,
namely IIM Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Calcutta, Lucknow, Kozhikode and Indore.
b. A cursory examination of the IIT & NIT Bills.
c. A t horough study of DoPT Letters and Office Memorandums on various Administrative
Procedures currently in vogue in the Central Government Offices.
d. Study of various GoI / Ministry of Education Circulars and Guidelines issued from time to time.
e. Proposals forwarded by the Administrative Reform Commissions from time to time.
f. Relevant Chapters of GFR 2005
g. A close examination of Minutes of BoG and its empowered Committees meetings held since the
inception of the Institute and decisions taken therein.
h. Once the HR Policy and Service Rules are approved by the Board of Governors of IIM Raipur
and implemented, all previous circulars and rules/regulations will be superseded.

The Committee, as stated above, held a series of meetings to deliberate on various issues required to
be incorporated/omitted in the HR Manual & Service Rules in the light of the above suggestions at
every stage. The contents of the final draft were discussed in detail in the Faculty Council Meeting
as well as in a meeting with the Staff of the Institute.

Any modifications or corrections to these Rules and Regulations will have to go through a process of
approval by the Board of Governors, IIM Raipur

Where rules are silent in the Institute’s HR Policy and Service Rules, Central Govt. Rules may
be followed.

6

Vision Statement
“To become a premier management institution that inspires thought leadership through scholarship and
teaching by incorporating an ethos of inquiry, consciousness, and innovation”.

Mission Statement
“To provide a learning centric environment that nurtures management thought through research and practice
to create future leaders”.

7

Abbreviations

BOG Board of Governors
GoI Government of India
GFR Generation Financial Rules
CAO Chief Administrative Officer
DPC Departmental Promotion Committee
MACPS Modified Assured Career Progression Scheme
EE&C Executive Education and Consultancy
NFD Non Faculty Development
CL Casual Leave
EoD End of Day
LTC Leave Travel Concession
PoP Professor of Practice
RA/TA Research Assistant / Teaching Assistant
JA Junior Assistant
JE Junior Engineer
PA Personal Assistant
FA&CAO Financial Advisor & Chief Accounts Officer
CAG Comptroller and Auditor General of India
CCS Central Civil Services Conduct Rules
MDC Management Development Centre
CPC Central Pay Commission
OPD Outpatient Department
FRC Faculty Recruitment and Review Committee

8

Contents

Chapter No. Particulars Page #

1. Introduction
1.1. Definitions
1.2. Empowered Committees Constituted by the BoG
1.3. Committees at IIM Raipur
1.4. Nomination to the Board
13
13
13
13
13

2. Empowered Committee of BoG
2.1. Empowered Committees
2.2. Role & Responsibilities of Finance & Audit Committee
2.2.1 Role and Purpose
2.2.2 Authority
2.2.3 Constitution of Committee
2.2.4 Resignation / Removal
2.2.5 Meetings & Communication
2.2.6 Responsibilities
2.2.7 Entitlement of Honorarium & TA / DA
2.2.8 Confidentiality
2.2.9 Composition of Finance & Audit Committee
2.3. Roles & Responsibilities of Construction Committee
2.3.1 Role and Purpose
2.3.2 Authority
2.3.3 Constitution of Committee
2.3.4 Resignation / Removal
2.3.5 Meetings & Communication
2.3.6 Responsibilities
2.3.7 Entitlement of Honorarium & TA / DA
2.3.8 Confidentiality
2.3.9 Composition of Construction Committee
2.4. Roles & Responsibilities of HR Committee
2.4.1 Role and Purpose
2.4.2 Authority
2.4.3 Constitution of Committee
2.4.4 Resignation / Removal
2.4.5 Responsibilities
2.4.6 Meeting & Communications
2.4.7 Support to the Committee
2.4.8 Entitlement of Honorarium & TA / DA
2.4.9 Confidentiality
2.4.10 Composition of HR Committee
2.5. Committee for Gender Sensitivity and Prevention of Sexual Harassment of
Women at the Workplace
2.5.1 Sexual Harassment Committee
2.5.2 Guidelines to deal with complaints against sexual harassment of women
at work place
2.5.3 Procedure
2.5.4 Disposal of the Report
15
15
15
15
15
16
16
16
17
19
19
19
19
19
20
21
21
22
22
23
24
24
24
24
24
25
26
26
26
27
27
27
27
27

27
28

29
30

3. Organisation Chart 31
4. Powers &Functions of Director, Dean (s) and CAO
4.1. Powers & Functions of Director
4.2. Powers & Functions of Dean(s)
4.2.1 Dean (Academics)
4.2.2 Dean (Planning & Research)
32
32
32
32

9

4.3. Powers & Functions of the CAO
4.4. Delegation of Power
4.5. Delegation of Powers: Part –I: Delegation of Powers to the Director
4.5.1 Academics
4.5.2 Executive Education
4.5.3 Faculty Appointments
4.5.4 Personnel
4.5.5 Financial
4.5.6 Purchase – Capital
4.5.7 Revenue – Purchase
4.6. Delegation of Powers: Part – II: Delegation of Financial Powers
4.7. Delegation of Powers: Part – III: Delegation of Powers for works
33
33
34
34
35
35
36
37
38
38
39
44
5. Faculty Recruitment Policy
5.1. Type of Faculty Position
5.2. Minimum Qualifications & Experience Requirements for Faculty Position
5.3. Recruitment Process for Regular Faculty
5.4. Internal Candidates Seeking Higher Position
5.5. Minimum Criteria for Specific Positions
5.6. Terms & Conditions of Appointment
5.7. Visiting Faculty Compensation Rules
5.8. Faculty Confirmation
5.9. Regularization of Faculty Members
5.9.1 From Assistant Professor (Contract) to Assistant Professor Regular Scale
Position
5.9.2 Promotion of Assistant Professor to Associate Professor and Associate
Professor to Professor
5.9.3 Policy for Professor (Level 14A) to Professor (Level 15) Upgrade
5.10. Superannuation Age
5.11. Resignation by Faculty

46
46
46
48
49
50
51
51
52
52
52

52

52
53
53
6. Non-Faculty Recruitment Policy
6.1. Non-Faculty Recruitment
6.1.1 Classification of Non-Faculty
6.1.2 Designation, Scale of Pay and Qualification
6.2. Appointing Authority
6.3. Recruitment Process
6.4. General
6.4.1 Verification process at the time of Joining
6.5. Non-Faculty Probation
6.6. Non-Faculty Confirmation
6.7. Superannuation Age
6.8. Resignation of permanent Non-Faculty
54
54
54
54
60
61
62
62
62
62
63
63

7. Faculty Teaching Hours, Annual Work Plan & Performance Appraisal
7.1. Required Teaching Hours for Faculty Members
7.2. Faculty Annual Work Plan
7.3. Annual Performance Appraisal
7.4. Parameters of the Faculty Annual Performance Appraisal
7.5. Promotions
7.6. Performance Review
7.7. Rewards & Incentives

64
64
64
64
65
66
66
71
8. Faculty’s Growth Avenues & Promotion
8.1. Growth Avenues for Faculty Members
73
73

9. Non-Faculty Performance Appraisal, Growth Avenues & Promotions 74

10

9.1. Performance Appraisal
9.2. Growth Avenues for Non-Faculty
9.3. Guidelines for DPC
9.4. Modified Assured Career Progression Scheme (MACPS)
74
74
75
77
10. Faculty Development Policy
10.1. Faculty Development Fund
10.1.1 Faculty Development Scheme for regular appointment
10.1.2 Faculty Development allowance
10.2. Incentives for Research & Case Publications
10.2.1 Incentive for Research Publications

10.3. Nominating Faculty Members for Faculty Development Programme
10.3.1 International
10.3.2 National

78
78
78
79
79
79

80
80
81
11. Guidelines, Rules and Procedures for Management Development Programmes
11.1. Broad understanding
11.2. In-company programme
11.3. Management Development Programme
11.4. Advanced Management Programme
11.5. Broad Guidelines for Offering executive Education
11.6. In-company Programme
11.7. Rules for in-company programmes
11.8. Nomination of Programme Directors & Delivery
11.9. Honorarium for teaching in a long term programme
11.10. Executive Education and Consulting (EE&C) Policy
11.11. Revised Executive Learning & Development Policy
11.12. Difficulty Resolution

82
82
82
82
82
82
83
83
84
84
84
85
87
12. Guidelines, Rules and Procedures for Consultancy and Professional Activities
12.1. Broad Understandings
12.2. Broad Guidelines
12.3. Definition
12.4. Rules and Operating Procedure
12.5. Budget
12.6. Sharing of Professional Fee
12.7. Permissible Consulting Time
12.8. Consultancy Report
12.9. Accounting and Reporting System
12.10. Professional Activity
12.11. Difficulty Resolution

88
88
88
88
89
89
90
91
91
92
92
93
13. Non-Faculty Development Policy
13.1. Non-Faculty Development Scheme (NFDS)
13.2. Policy for Employee Award
13.3. Special Incentive
13.4. Recognizing length of service
13.5. Bereavement Allowance
13.6. Best Service Provider in Different Categories

94
94
95
95
95
96
96
14. Leave, Holidays and Vacation Rules
14.1. Leave
14.2. Casual Leave (CL)
14.3. Restricted Holiday
14.4. Earned Leave and Vacation Leave

97
97
97
98

11

14.5. Half Pay Leave
14.6. Commuted Leave
14.7. Leave Not Due
14.8. Extraordinary Leave (EoD)
14.9. Leave Salary
14.10. Maternity Leave
14.11. Paternity Leave
14.12. Sabbatical Leave
14.13. Study Leave / Fellowship / Exchange, Programme/Training
14.14. Leave Sanctioning Authority
14.15. Leave Without Pay
100
100
101
102
102
102
102
103
103
103

15. Leave Travel Concession Rules
15.1. Admissibility
15.2. Types of LTCs / Block Years
15.3. EL Encashment Facility
15.4. Relaxation for travel by air to visit J&K
15.5. Carryover of leave travel concession
15.6. A Place to be visited by the employee and family members of his family under
LTC to any place in India
15.7. Reimbursement
15.8. Forfeiture of Claim
15.9. Grant of advance and adjustment thereof

104
104
104
104
105
105
105

105
105
105
16. TA/DA Rules
16.1. Travel
16.2. Boarding, lodging and local conveyance
16.3. TA on transfer, TA entitlement on retiring employees
16.4. International (Conference) Travel for faculty
16.5. Special Cases
16.6. TA on joining
16.7. Mileage Points
16.8. Travel advance & settlement Rules
107
107
107
107
108
108
108
108
108

17. Medical Scheme
17.1. Rules for outdoor and indoor medical treatment for self & dependent family
17.2. Medical facilities on the Premises of IIM Raipur

110
110
110

18. Children Education Allowances 111
19. Housing Rules
19.1. General Conditions
19.2. Occupation of Campus House beyond the Date of retirement
112
113
114

20. Disciplinary Rules 116
21. Rules of Resignations and Retirement
21.1. Superannuation Benefits
117
118
22. New Pension Scheme
22.1. Key features of Tier-I account
22.2. Minimum contribution requirements
22.3. Change structure for PoPs
119
119
119
119

23. Gratuity and Leave Encashment Policy 121
24. Grievance Redressal
24.1. Faculty Grievance Redressal
24.2. Non-Faculty Grievance Redressal

122
122

12

25. General Rules
25.1. Policy on Relocation Allowance
25.2. Smoking Policy
25.3. Administration, Interpretation and Amendments
25.4. Policy for Overseas Exposure
123
123
123
124
124
Annexures:

I. Faculty Recruitment Procedure at IIM Raipur 125
II. Application form for a faculty position 138
III. Application Screening Summary Sheet for a faculty position 143
IV. Brief Resume about faculty candidate 144
V. Format of Letter of Recommendation from the referee for Faculty Position 146
VI. Annual Faculty Self-Performance Appraisal Form 147
VII. Annual Work Plan for Faculty 151
VIII. Application form for Non-Faculty position 154
IX. Application Screening Summary Sheet for Non-Faculty position 157
X. Format of Selection Committee Feedback for Non-Faculty position 158
XI. Format of Letter of Recommendation from the referee for Non-Faculty Position 159
XII. Format of Annual Staff Performance Appraisal 160
XIII. Format of Application for Casual Leave (Faculty & Non-faculty) 167
XIV. Format of Application for Earned Leave (Faculty & Non-faculty) 169
XV. Application for LTC & Clam Bill 171
XVI. Travel request form 181
XVII. Salient features of the Group Mediclaim Policy & Application for Medical Claims 182
XVIII. Check List for the verification process 187
XIX. Consultancy Approval Form 188
XX. Faculty Development Programme 191
XXI. In-company Management Development Programme 195
XXII. Management Development Programme (Open) 198

13

1. Introduction

These Rules will be applicable to all employees of the Institute. They may be supplemented or amended
by the Board of Governors (BoG) as and when required.

For any other matter relevant to the service conditions of the employees not specifically covered in
this Manual, the Institute shall be guided by the rules, norms and procedures as prescribed by the
Government of India from time to time.

1.1 Definitions:

a. "Institute" means the Indian Institute of Management, Raipur
b. "Board" means the Board of Governors of the Institute
c. "Director" means the Director of the Institute
d. "Faculty" means the Faculty of the Institute
e. "CAO" means Chief Administrative Officer of the Institute
f. "FA&CAO" means Financial Advisor & Chief Accounts officer of the Institute
g. "AO" means Administrative Officer of the Institute
h. "OA" means Office Assistant of the Institute
i. “PA” means Personal Assistant of the Institute
j. “JE” means Junior Engineer of the Institute
k. "JA" means Junior Assistant of the Institute
l. "RA/TA" means Research Assistant/ Teaching Assistant of the Institute
m. "Non-Faculty" means persons serving in the Institute in any capacity other than "Faculty". "Nonfaculty" would be referred to as "Staff" for the purpose of this Manual. Non-faculty includes
staff members on Probation appointed on a regular scale and staff members appointed on
contract (consolidated salary). This definition of non -faculty does not include staff members
appointed from manpower agencies working with the institute.
n. "Employee" means anybody whom the Institute has employed. Trainees, Academic Associates
and any other trainee appointees are not treated as employees of the Institute.
o. "Headquarters" means Institute's offices at the Institute campus at Raipur / Naya Raipur
p. "Government" means the Central Government unless the context otherwise requires it.
q. "Area" means the various functional Academic Areas of the Institute
r. Definitions of various type of faculty positions are given in Chapter 5

1.2 Empowered Committees Constituted by the BoG

The Board of Governors, IIM Raipur , has appointed Empowered Committees to assist the Board to
fulfil responsibilities.

1.3 Committees at IIM Raipur

IIM Raipur is adm inistered/managed by several Faculty Committees. The Director appoints such
Faculty Committees on a need basis.

1.4 Nomination to the Board

14

As per Section 10 (1) (e) of IIM Act, 2017, two faculty members are to be nominated to the Board by
the Chairperson in the manner laid down in para 4 of IIM Raipur Regulations, 2021.

15

2. Empowered Committees of the BoG

2.1 Empowered Committees

The Board of Governors have constituted the following three empowered committees:

i) Finance & Audit Committee
ii) Campus Construction Committee
iii) HR Committee

2.2 Role & Responsibilities of Finance & Audit Committee

2.2.1 Role and Purpose

The primary function of the Finance & Audit Committee (“the Committee”) is to assist the Board of
Governors (“the Board or BoG”) in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities for:

i) The financial reporting and budgeting processes,
ii) The system of internal controls and risk assessment,
iii) Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements,
iv) The qualifications, independence, and performance of the internal audit function.
v) Compliance observations of Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) Audit (external Auditor
appointed by Ministry of Education)
vi) Approvals of non-budget and other expenditures as per the delegation of the Financial Process.

2.2.2 Authority

The Committee's authority comes from the Board. The Committee has the authority to approve the
budget, including the revised budget and annual financial statement and also the deviations in budget
estimates and budgeted expenditure, investments, lending, and borrowing and direct the Internal Audit
Department / Internal Auditor to conduct an audit, review, and/ or a special investigation into any
matters within the scope of the Committee's responsibility.

The Committee is empowered to:

i) Have access to all activities, records, property, and personnel of the Institute in the discharge of
their duties.
ii) Suggest sources of earning and application thereof for approval of BoG.
iii) Approve the use of outside accountants, consultants or others retained by the Institute to assist in
conducting audits, reviews, and/or special investigations.
iv) Approve, Review and recommend appropriate budget and financing for IIM Raipur as part of the
budget approval process.
v) Consider & pass any resolution on the annual report, the annual accounts, and financial statement
for the Board's consideration.
vi) Review, propose, adopt, vary or rescind from time to time provisions of Rules, codes, and manuals
and having financial implications and significant accounting policies with the approval of BoG.

16

vii) Delegate authority to the subcommittees/Director or any other functionary of the Institute as per
institutional needs.
viii) Approve & retain with Board approval, independent counsel/accountants, or others having special
competence as necessary to assist in fulfilling its responsibility or assist in t he conduct of an
investigation.
ix) Perform such additional functions & carry out such duties as assigned by BoG.
x) Approve fee structure and major contracts exceeding Rs. 25 lakh in each case
xi) The Committee will have the resources and authority necessary to discharge its duties and
responsibilities.
xii) Approve expenditure which is not included in the annual budget.

2.2.3 Constitution of Committee:

i) Finance and Audit Committee will comprise the following members:
a) Chairperson of the Committee (one of the BoG members)
b) Three members of the BoG
c) One external member of the relevant field
d) Director, IIM Raipur
ii) Financial Advisor and Chief Accounts Officer of the Institute shall act as Member Secretary of
the Committee and be the committee's non-voting member.
iii) The Committee is empowered to associate any expert in Finance Accounts and Information
technology to attend any meeting, including special meetings if any.
iv) Collectively, the members of the Committee should have professional experience and expertise
in the fields of finance, accounting, budgeting, financial reporting, auditing, administration,
information technology and knowledge of Government Finances and Accounting System.
v) At least one member of the Committee should have finance and accounting expertise.
However, the lack of any such member shall not invalidate or otherwise affect the actions taken
by the Committee.
vi) A quorum shall consist of three Committee members present in person, including by tele-
conferencing or videoconferencing, etc.
vii) Chairperson, BoG, may attend any meeting of the Committee at his discretion.

2.2.4 Resignation / Removal

i. Any members who resigned/removed from membership of the Board of Governors or ceased to
be a member of BoG shall automatically cease to be a member of the Committee.
ii. Any member who wishes to resign from membership of the Committee shall submit his
resignation to Chairperson BoG through the Chairperson of Finance & Audit Committee. The
member shall be deemed to have resigned from the day the Chairperson BoG accepts the
resignation.
iii. Chairperson BoG shall have authority to remove any member, except the Director of the Institute,
from the committee if the member becomes insolvent or of unsound mind or a convict or found
indulging in moral turpitude.

2.2.5 Meetings & Communication

17

i) The Committee shall meet twice in a Financial Year , preferably once every six months or more
frequently as deemed necessary by any Committee member. Chairperson can also call an
extraordinary meeting at short notice.

ii) All meetings shall be chaired by the Chairperson, Finance & Audit Committee. In exceptional
cases, when the Chairperson is out of the Country or seriously ill, the meeting will be chaired by
any of the members present by election among the members present. The FA & CAO shall act as
an electoral officer in such a case.
iii) Each member shall be entitled to o ne vote and shall cast that vote on each item submitted.
However, in case of a tie or equal votes in favour or against any point of resolution, Chairperson,
Finance & Audit Committee shall have an additional vote.
iv) Members shall only abstain from a vote when a valid conflict of interest is addressed to the
Committee.
v) The Committee may invite members of the Institute, representatives of the external auditor , or
others to attend meetings and provide pertinent information.
vi) An agenda of the meeting will be circulated to all the members of the Committee minimum of
seven days in advance through email. However, in case of an emergency meeting, the notice
period of seven days shall stand waived off. Agenda papers for discussion shall also be provided
well in advance of the date of the meeting.
vii) The minutes of each meeting will be prepared and approved in subsequent meetings.

2.2.6 Responsibilities

The Finance and Audit Committee is accountable to the Board for carrying out the following
responsibilities in relation to the management of funds, including fees & other charges, grants,
deposits, gifts, donations , bequests benefactions, etc. and the expenditure incurred on affairs of the
Institute:

i) Budgeting

a) Review and approve the annual budgets, including the revised budget.
b) Monitor performance against the budget periodically.
c) Review, recommend and approve funding, investments and expenditure.

ii) Financial Statements

a) Review significant accounting and reporting issues, including complex or unusual
transactions and highly judgmental areas, and recent professional and regulatory initiatives,
and understand their impact on financial statements.
b) Review significant financial reporting issues and judgments made in connection with the
preparation of the financial statements.
c) Review with the external auditors the internal / /external audit results, including any
difficulties encountered.
d) Discuss the annual audited financial statements and the auditors.
e) While the Committee has the responsibilities and the authority as set forth in this Charter, it
is not the responsibility of the Committee to plan or conduct individual audits, reviews
and/or investigations.

18

iii) Risk and Internal Controls

a) Discuss with BoG the major policies with respect to risk assessment and risk management.
b) Consider the effectiveness of the internal control environment.
c) Understand the scope of internal and external auditors' reviews of internal control over
financial reporting, obtain reports on significant findings and recommendations, and Institute
responses.
d) Review any disclosures made about significant deficiencies in the design or operation of
internal controls or any fraud that involves employees who have a significant role in the
internal controls.

iv) Internal Audit

a) Review and concur the appointment, replacement, or dismissal of the Internal Auditor.
b) Annually review the performance of the Internal Auditor, the charter, plans, activities,
staffing, and organizational structure of the internal audit function.
c) Review and approve the annual report; the quarterly & annual audit reports, and compliance
reports and discuss overall results with the Internal Auditor.
d) Review the effectiveness of the internal audit function, including compliance with the
International Standards f or the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing and the Code of
Ethics of The Institute of Internal Auditors. This audit may be accomplished through a
Quality Assurance and Improvement Program as the IIA/CAG requires.

v) CAG Audit

a) Review the observations made by CAG Audit and report the same to the BoG with
recommendations for remedial measures.
b) Guide and review the Compliance Report submitted by the Institute.

vi) Compliance

a) Review the effectiveness of the system of accounting being followed, and the books of
accounts are maintained.
b) Review the effectiveness of the system for monitoring compliance with laws, policies and
regulations.
c) Review the results of investigations resulting from instances of noncompliance.
d) Review the findings of any examinations by regulatory agencies and any auditor observations
on the management of finances.
e) Encourage continuous improvement of and foster adherence to the IIM Raipur policies,
procedures, and practices at all levels.

vii) Communication & Reporting

Regularly report to the Board about Committee activities and issues that arise with respect to:

19

a) The quality or integrity of the financial statements of IIM Raipur
b) Compliance with legal or regulatory requirements,
c) The performance of the Internal Auditors
d) The performance of the internal audit division of the Institute.

2.2.7 Entitlement of Honorarium & TA / DA

The members of the Committee shall be entitled to:
• To & fro air ticket and DA as applicable
• Local Conveyance
• Honorarium for attending the meeting as per IIM Raipur Rules
• The officials of IIM Raipur will not be paid an honorarium for attending the meeting.

2.2.8 Confidentiality

All deliberations of the Committee and all records, material and information pertaining to the Institute
obtained by a member of the Committee shall be considered confidential. Committee members shall
maintain the confidentiality of such deliberations and safeguard such records, material, and
information from unauthorised access.

2.2.9 Composition of Finance & Audit Committee

The current composition of the Finance & Audit Committee is given below:

2.3 Role & Responsibilities of Construction Committee

2.3.1 Role and Purpose

The primary function of the Campus Construction Committee (“the Committee”) is to assist the Board
of Governors (“the Board or BoG”) in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities for:

i) Planning & construction activities on the campus of IIM Raipur.

Dr Utkarsh Majmudar, Member BoG Chairperson
Shri Firdose Vandrevala, Member BoG
Shri Vijay Chauthaiwale, Member BoG
Member
Member
Shri Bhupesh Dinger, Member BoG Member
Prof. Ram Kumar Kakani, Director and Member BoG Member
Shri Mohd. Shamim, Assistant Registrar, IIT Delhi External member of relevant field
Shri H K Debata, FA & CAO Member Secretary

20

ii) Coordination with other committees constituted by the Board and maintenance of strong, positive
working relationship with the management.

iii) Develop an annual plan responsive to the needs of the institute. The annual plan shall provide inputs
for construction activities, phase-wise construction plan, & quality aspects.

iv) Finalization of Technical Consultants, including Architects and Project Management Consultants,
Contractors, and Independent technical experts.

v) Monitoring activities of Technical Consultants, Project Implementation Unit, review of the schedule
of construction & completion and any other specific task assigned by the BoG

vi) Approval to estimates of various repairs & maintenance work under specific powers of the
Committee.

vii) The committee shall also recommend the technical and financial requirements of various works
undertaken for review and approval of the Board.

2.3.2 Authority

The Committee's authority comes from the Board. The Committee has the authority to approve estimates
of estimates,/accord of technical sanction to detailed estimates, authorise excess of estimates, acceptance of
lowest tender, acceptance of single tender, award of work by negation with the lowest tenderer, acceptance
of a tender other than lowest, award of work without a call of tenders, execution of an agreement, an accord
of sanction to extra/substituted item, grant of extension of time, passing of bills, purchase of materials
against sanctioned estimates/allocation of emergent work as per delegation of power for works by the BOG.

The Committee is empowered to:

i) Have access to all construction activities, records, property, and personnel of the Institute in the
discharge of their duties. The committee shall have access to key functionaries of the institute related
to construction activities, including budget documents for construction.
ii) Understand the scope of the Institute requirements, and define the scope of Work/job to be assigned
to Technical Consultants, including Project Management Consultants and Contractors.
iii) Consider, Approve & pass any resolution on any formulation of the project, plans drawing and design,
the scope of the work or project, quality of construction as per delegation of authority, and those to be
put up for approval of the Board.
iv) Approve the engagement of outside consultants or contractors or others retained by the Institute to
assist in preparing construction repairs & maintenance plans, drawings designs, BoQs, tenders, and
execution of work, monitoring and evaluation, reviews of progress, audit and/or special investigations.
v) Discuss and guide the Institute functionaries on the major policies with respect to risk assessment and
risk management in relation to the construction plans & activities.
vi) Consider and recommend acquisition or disposal of immoveable properties for the Institute for
approval of the Board as per GoI norms.
vii) Review the job performed by the Technical Consultants and suggest remedial measures for
encountering the problems and difficulties in the execution of on -going project work to speed up the
progress.
viii) Review reports, significant findings of the experts on monitoring and evaluation, together with Institute

21

responses.
ix) Review any disclosures made about significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal
controls or any fraud that involves employees who have a significant role in the internal controls.
x) Apprise BoG regarding the progress of the works.
xi) Review, propose, adopt, vary or rescind from time to time provisions of Rules, codes, and manuals
having implications pertaining to construction and significant construction accounting policies with
the approval of BoG.
xii) Delegate authority to subcommittees or the Director or any other functionary of the Institute as per
institutional needs.
xiii) Approve and retain with Board approval, independent counsels or accountants, technical a uditors or
others having special competence as necessary to assist in fulfilling its responsibility or assist in the
conduct of an investigation.
xiv) Perform such additional functions and carry out such duties as assigned by BoG.
xv) Approval of the budget and expenditure, including payment to concerned parties related to construction
as per delegation of Powers.
xvi) Review, discuss , and assess the Committee's performance and its role and responsibilities. The
committee may seek advice and suggestions from BoG.
xvii) The Committee will have the resources and authority necessary to discharge its duties and
responsibilities.

2.3.3 Constitution of Committee:

i) Campus Construction Committee will comprise of following members:
a) Chairperson of the Construction Committee:(one of the BoG members)
b) Three members of the BoG
c) Three External Expert Members
d) Director, IIM Raipur
ii) Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) of the Institute shall act as Member -Secretary of the Committee
and will be the non-voting member of the committee.
iii) The Committee is empowered to associate any expert in the field of Construction, Electrical, Design,
Architecture, or other experts to attend any meeting, including special meetings if any.
iv) Collectively, members of the Committee should have professional experience and expertise in the
fields of administration, construction, engineering projects, and project and contract management.
v) However, the lack of the above shall not invalidate the member or affect the actions taken by the
Committee.
vi) A quorum shall consist of three committee members present in person, including by tele-
conferencing or videoconferencing etc.
vii) Chairperson, BoG may attend any meeting of the committee at his / her discretion.

2.3.4 Resignation / Removal

22

i) Any members who resigned or removed from membership of the Board of Governors or ceased
to be a member of BoG shall automatically cease to be a member of the Committee.
ii) Any member who wishes to resign from membership of the Committee shall submit his
resignation to Chairperson BoG through Chairperson Campus Construction Committee. The
member shall be deemed to have resigned from the day the Chairperson BoG accepts the
resignation.
iii) Chairperson BoG shall have authority to remove any member, except for the Director of the
Institute, from the committee if the member becomes insolvent or of unsound mind or a convict
or found indulging in moral turpitude.

2.3.5 Meetings & Communication

i) The Committee shall meet four times in a Financial Year, preferably once every Quarter or more
frequently as deemed necessary by any Committee member. Chairperson can also call an
extraordinary meeting at short notice.
ii) All meeting s shall be chaired by the Chairperson, Campus Construction Committee. In
exceptional cases, when the Chairperson is out of the Country or seriously ill, the meeting will
be chaired by any of the members present by election among the members present.
iii) Each member shall be entitled to one vote an d shall cast that vote on each item submitted.
However, in case of a tie or equal votes in favour or against any point of resolution, the
Chairperson, Campus Construction Committee shall have an additional vote.
iv) Members shall only abstain from a vote when there is a valid conflict of interest addressed to
the Committee.
v) The Committee may invite members of management, representatives of the Government
Construction Agencies or other experts to attend meetings and provide pertinent information as
necessary.
vi) An agenda of the Meeting will be circulated to all the members of the Committee at least seven
days in advance through email. However, in case of an emergency meeting, the notice period
of seven days shall stand waived off. Agenda papers for discussion shall also be provided well
in advance of the date of the meeting.
vii) The minutes of each meeting will be prepared and approved in subsequent meetings.

2.3.6 Responsibilities

The Campus Construction Committee is accountable to the Board for carrying out the following
responsibilities in relation to the finalization of plans for construction, repairs & maintenance activities
and review of monitoring, supervision and evaluation of construction activities of the Institute:

i) Project planning &budgeting:

a) Review significant construction and reporting issues, including complex or unusual items
of construction and highly judgmental areas, and recent professional and regulatory
initiatives and understand their impact.
b) Review and access the issues related to the development of campus & construction
activities.

ii) Project execution

23

a) Finalization of appointment of technical consultants for Campus Design (Architects and
Project Management Consultant) and contractors for comprehensive development of New
Campus of IIM Raipur at Naya Raipur
b) Approve & retain with Board approval, independent counsel or technical experts, or others
having special competence as necessary to assist in fulfilling its responsibility or assist in
the conduct of an investigation.
c) Monitor progress of work, quality performance and expenditure against budget
periodically.
d) Review of project implementation with the external technical experts, including regulatory
authorities and difficulties encountered.

iii) Project Monitoring & Control

a) Finalization & Appointment of Contractors for construction works , including repairs and
maintenance works as per financial delegation.
b) Review of the progress of the work with the PMC engineers and architects, technical
consultants, independent experts etc.
c) Consider the effectiveness of the internal controls’ environment.

iv) Compliance

a) Review the effectiveness of the system for monitoring compliance with laws, policies and
regulations; review the results of investigations resulting from instances of noncompliance.
b) Review the findings of any examinations by Technical experts, regulatory agencies, and any
auditor observations on management and execution of construction/ maintenance activities.
c) Encourage continuous improvement of and foster adherence to the IIM Raipur policies,
procedures, and practices at all levels.
d) Review the observations made by CAG Audit / Independent Technical Experts on
construction & maintenance activities and report the same to the BoG with
recommendations for remedial measures.
e) Guide and review the Compliance Report submitted by the Institute.

v) Communication & Reporting

Regularly report to the Board about Committee activities and issues that arise with respect to:

a) The Propriety, quality, and progress of construction & maintenance activities
b) Compliance with legal or regulatory requirements,
c) The performance of the Technical Consultant, including PMC

2.3.7 Entitlement of Honorarium & TA / DA

The members of the Committee shall be entitled to:

• To & fro air ticket and DA as applicable
• Local Conveyance
• Honorarium for attending the meeting as per IIM Raipur Rules

24

• The officials of IIM Raipur will not be paid an honorarium for attending the meeting.

2.3.8 Confidentiality

All deliberations of the Committee and all records, material and information pertaining to the Institute
obtained by a member of the Committee shall be considered confidential. Committee members shall
maintain the confidentiality of such deliberations and shall safeguard such records, material and
information from improper access.

2.3.9 Composition of Construction Committee

The current composition of the Construction Committee is given below:

Prof. Ram Kumar Kakani, Director & Member BoG Chairperson
Shri Firdose Vandrevala, Member BoG Member
Smt Anuradha Paraskar, Member BoG Member
Prof. Gangadhar Ramtekkar, Professor, Civil Dept., NIT
Raipur
External Expert Member
Prof. Arvind Kumar Jain, Professor, IIT Delhi External Expert Member
Prof. Mandeep Singh, Professor, SPA Delhi External Expert Member
Shri Salil Rai Shrivastava, OSD, Dept. of Hsg & Env. CG
Govt.
External Expert Member
Col (Dr) Harindra Tripathi (Retd.), CAO Member Secretary

2.4 Role & Responsibilities of HR Committee

2.4.1 Role and Purpose

The primary function of the HR Committee (“the Committee”) is to assist the Board of Governors
(“the Board or BoG”) in fulfilling the following responsibilities:
i) Assist the Board of Governors, IIM Raipur , in fulfilling its responsibilities as stewards of I IM
Raipur (the Institute) by advising the Board on the effective implementation and application of
sound human resource policies that are aligned with the organization’s values, vision, mission and
aspirations.
ii) Recommend to the Board for its consideration relating to the Institute’s Human Resource Policies
and Service Rules. The Committee shall appraise the annual performance of the faculty and the
Staff and lead the annual evaluation thereof.
iii) Carry out any other related initiatives as may be necessary or desirable to enhance the
performance of the Management and the employees of the Institute but are limited to learning and
development.

2.4.2 Authority

The Committee's authority comes from the Board. The Committee is empowered to:

25

i) Approve all policy matters pertaining to human resource management, procedural codes, manuals
governing recruitment, general conditions of service of IIM Raipur employees, welfare measures,
grievance redressal, wage or salary structure and compensations as per GoI instructions, office
procedures for review of the performance of IIM Raipur employees.
ii) The committee is also authorized to have access to all Human Resource activities, records,
property, and personnel of the Institute in the discharge of their duties and direct the Institute to
conduct reviews. The committee shall also have access to key functionaries of the institute related
to human resources management.
iii) Have access to all activities, records, property and personnel of the Institute in t h e discharge of
their duties.
iv) Understand the scope of the Institute's requirements to provide a steady stream of professionally
competent faculty and support staff.
v) Consider review and pass any resolution recommending delegation of administrative powers to
the Director of the Institute for approval of the Board.
vi) Develop grievance redressing mechanism for faculty and staff.
vii) Delegate authority to sub-committees or the Director or any other functionary of the Institute as
per institutional needs.
viii) Approve & retain with Board approval, independent counsel, accountants, Human Resource
experts or others having special competence as necessary to assist in fulfilling its responsibility
or assist in the conduct of an investigation.
ix) Perform such additional functions & carry out such duties as assigned by BoG.
x) The Committee will have the resources and authority necessary to discharge its duties and
responsibilities.

2.4.3 Constitution of Committee

i) The Committee shall be comprised of a minimum of four members and a maximum of six
members , including the Chairperson. The Chair of the Board may participate in any meeting at
his discretion.
ii) The Committee members shall be appointed by the Board. Each member shall continue as a
member until a successor is appointed unless the member resigns or is removed by resolution of
the Board or otherwise ceases to be a member of the Board.
iii) Where a vacancy occurs at any time in the membership of the Committee, it may be filled by the
Chairperson, BoG, until the next duly called Board meeting and shall be filled by the Chairperson
if the membership of the Committee is less than four members as a result of the vacancy.
iv) If the Chairperson of the Committee is not present at any meeting of the Committee, the Chair
of the meetings shall be chosen by the Committee from amongst the members present.
v) The Chairperson presiding at any meeting of the Committee shall have a vote in all matters
considered by the Committee. In the event of a tie, the Chairperson will have a casting vote.
vi) The Dean (Academics), IIM Raipur , will serve as Member Secretary of the Committee. If the
Member Secretary is not present in any meeting of the Committee, the Committee may appoint
an Acting Secretary to perform the functions of the Secretary in that meeting. The Member
Secretary will be a non-voting Member.

26

2.4.4 Resignation / Removal

i) Any members who resigned/removed from the membership of the Board of Governors or ceased
to be a member of BoG shall automatically cease to be a member of the Committee.
ii) Any member who wishes to resign from the membership of the Committee shall submit his
resignation to Chairperson BoG through the Chairperson of the HR Committee. The member shall
be deemed to have resigned from the day their Chairperson BoG accepts the resignation.
iii) Chairperson BoG shall have the authority to remove any member except the Director of the
Institute, from the committee if the member becomes insolvent or of unsound mind or a convict
or found indulging in moral turpitude.

2.4.5 Responsibilities

The Committee shall have the following duties and responsibilities in respect of Human Resource
i) Ensure effective human resources policies and strategies that support the Institute‘s Values,
Vision, Mission and Aspirations.
ii) Review, and wherever required, report to the Board best practices, trends, new technologies and
current emerging public policy issues in HR matters, including but not limited to Occupational
Health and Safety.
iii) Review and recommend the total compensation guidelines and philosophies covering salary,
bonus, long term incentives and benefits for management and for the faculty & staff to the BoG.
iv) Review and recommend to the Board approval of all agreements pertaining to the management of
Administration & Establishment of the Institute.
v) Regularly review policies and programs relating to pension benefit plans and other welfare
measures such as Medical, LTC, CEA Loans and Advances to employees of the Institute.
vi) Assess the learning and development needs of Faculty & Staff and recommend learning
opportunities which can be used by the Institute to meet its needs for development.
vii) Recommend delegation of administrative powers and authority to the Director and any other
officer of the Institute in order to ensure smooth functioning of the Institute.

2.4.6 Meetings & Communications

The Committee shall meet a minimum of one time a year.
i) An extraordinary meeting of the Committee may be called by the Chairperson of the Committee,
depending upon the need of the Institute.
ii) A quorum for meetings shall be three Committee Members present in person or by telephone or
other telecommunications device that permits all persons participating in the meeting to speak
and hear one another.
iii) The agenda and associated material shall be sent to each member of the Committee seven days in
advance through email and the hard copy well in advance of the meeting and well before the start
of the meeting in case of an emergency meeting.
iv) The Committee shall have the right to permit the absence of the members on a discussion on any
point if the conflict of interest is brought to the notice of the committee.

27

2.4.7 Support to the Committee

i) The Committee shall identify, through the Director / CAO, the staff support required and the kind
and frequency of information required by the Committee.
ii) The Committee shall have access to any, and all books of records of the Institute required for the
execution of the Committee’s risk management obligations and, as necessary, shall discuss with
appropriate Institute officers and employees, co- ordinated through the Director, such records and
other relevant matters.
iii) The Committee shall have the authority to request the Board; the retention of external advisors,
experts or consultants in order to properly discharge its duties and responsibilities.

2.4.8 Entitlement of Honorarium & TA/DA

The members of the Committee shall be entitled to:

• To & fro air ticket and DA as applicable
• Local Conveyance
• Honorarium for attending the meeting as per IIM Raipur Rules
• The officials of IIM Raipur will not be paid an honorarium for attending the meeting.

2.4.9 Confidentiality

All deliberations of the Committee and all records, material and information pertaining to the Institute
obtained by a member of the Committee shall be considered confidential. Committee members shall
maintain the confidentiality of such deliberations and shall safeguard such records, material and
information from improper access.

2.4.10 Composition of HR Committee

HR Committee shall be comprised of a minimum of four members and a maximum of six members,
including the Chairperson.

The current composition of the HR Committee is given below:

2.5 Committee for Gender Sensitivity and Prevention of Sexual Harassment of
Women at the Workplace

2.5.1 Sexual Harassment Committee

The committee shall consist of:
Shri Firdose Vandrevala Chairperson
Shri Vijay Chauthaiwale Member BoG
Prof Utkarsh Majmudar Member BoG
Mrs Anuradha Paraskar Member BoG
Prof. Ram Kumar Kakani Director & Member BoG
Prof. Sanjeev Prashar Member Secretary

28

a. Two faculty members
b. One member of the staff
c. One Woman from outside with known contribution to Women's cause on the recommendation of
the State Women Commission.
d. One additional outside member, preferably from a government academic institute.
e. Chief Administrative Officer as Member Secretary

Note
a. The Lady Member will be the Chairperson of the Committee.
b. 50 per cent of the members of the committee will be women.
c. The Chief Administrative Officer of the Institute will be the member-Secretary of the committee.
d. No person who is a complainant, witness, or defendant in the complaint of harassment shall be a
member of the Committee.

The current composition of the Committee for Gender Sensitivity and Prevention of Sexual
Harassment of Women at the Workplace is given below:

Prof. Damini Saini Chairperson
Shri Anil Ramdas Ponal Member
Dr. Bhawna Priya Member
Dr. Daniel Inbaraj Member
Sushree Hema Setpal Member
Sushree Kavita Member
Dr. Pranith Kr. Roy Member

2.5.2 Guidelines to deal with complaints against sexual harassment of women at the workplace.

Central Government, with a view to providing protection against sexual harassment of women at the
workplace and for the prevention and redressal of complaints of sexual harassment and matters
connected therewith , has recently enacted “ The Sexual Harassment of women at workplace
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act 2013.

Sexual Harassment includes such unwelcome sexually determined behaviour (Whether directly or by
implication) as:

a) Physical contact & Advances
b) A demand or request for sexual favours
c) Sexually coloured remarks
d) Showing pornography
e) Any other unwelcome physical, verbal or nonverbal conduct of sexual nature.

There may be instances when th e victim woman may have apprehension and reasonable ground to
believe that her objection to the acts of sexual harassment as defined above would disadvantage her in

29

connection with her employment and may face adverse consequences if the victim does not consent to
such unwelcome sexually determined advances or behaviour.

The Supreme Court of India, in its judgement in Vishakha & Others Vs State of Rajasthan , makes it
obligatory for every employer and other responsible persons to follow the guidelines laid down by the
court and to evolve a specific policy to combat sexual harassment in the workplace. In compliance
with the mandate of the Supreme Court guidelines as well as the Act recently passed by the
Government of India, IIM Raipur will adopt the following to prevent, prohibit and punish sexual
harassment of women in the workplace. The institute is committed to providing for all women who
fall within its institution, including its academic, non-academic staff and students at the place of work
and study, an atmosphere free from sexual harassment, intimidation and exploitation.

Without prejudice to the generality of this obligation, following instructions are issued.

a) Express prohibition of sexual harassment as defined above at the workplace.
b) The rules/regulations of IIM Raipur relating to conduct and discipline shall include
rules/regulations prohibiting sexual harassment and provide for appropriate penalties in such rules
against the offender.
c) Appropriate work conditions shall be provided in respect of work, leisure, health and hygiene to
further ensure that there is no hostile environment towards women in workplaces, and no woman
employee should have reasonable grounds to believe that she is disadvantaged in connection with
her employment.
d) Criminal proceedings: Where such conduct amounts to a specific offence under the Indian Penal
Code or under any other law, the employer shall initiate appropriate action in accordance with law
by making a complaint with the appropriate authority. In particular, it should ensure that victims
or witnesses are not victimized or discriminated against while dealing with complaints of sexual
harassment. The victims of sexual harassment should have the option to seek the transfer of the
perpetrator or their own transfer.
e) Disciplinary action: Where such conduct amounts to misconduct in employment as defined by the
relevant service rules, appropriate disciplinary action should be initiated by the employer in
accordance with those rules.
f) Third-party harassment: Where sexual harassment occurs as a result of an act or omission by any
third party or outsider, the employer and person -in-charge will take all steps necessary and
reasonable to assist the affected person in terms of support and preventive action.

• The Committee against Sexual Harassment envisaged and constituted under this order will be deemed
to be an inquiry authority for the purposes of CCS Rules , and the Report of the Committee again st
Sexual Harassment shall be deemed to be an inquiry report under the CCS (CCA) Rules. The
disciplinary authority will act on the report of the Committee against Sexual Harassment in accordance
with the Rules.

2.5.3 Procedure

If being a woman working in IIM Raipur and have been sexually harassed in any of the forms given
below:

a) Physical contact and advances.
b) A demand or request for sexual favours.
c) Sexually coloured remarks.
d) Showing pornography.

30

e) Any other unwelcome physical; verbal or non-verbal conduct of sexual nature.

And has a reasonable ground to believe that she has been subjected to an unwelcome act at the
workplace as defined in Vishakha Guidelines can file a complaint to Director IIM Raipur or to any
member of the Committee or through the existing channel. Filing of a complaint shall not adversely
affect the complainant’s status/job,/salary/promotion/ grades etc. The complaint in writing must be
filed by her in person if she wishes to have an inquiry. It is clarified that it is the reasonable perception
of the woman that would be relevant in determining whether any conduct was sexually determined &
if so, whether such conduct was unwelcome or not, and that her objection would disadvantage her in
connection with her education or employment including evaluation, grading, recruitment, or promotion
or when it creates a hostile working, educational or living environment.
• The complaint will be forwarded to the Member Secretary of the Committee against sexual harassment
for calling for a meeting of the Committee in consultation with the Chairperson of the Committee.
• Action will be taken by the committee as per the guidelines of the Supreme Court as well as the Act
recently passed by the Government of India.
• Inquiry to be completed within 90 days: The inquiry shall be completed , and the Inquiry Report
submitted to the Committee Against Sexual Harassment within a period of 90 days from the date on
which the inquiry is commenced. In the event of any delay in sub mission of the Inquiry Report , the
reasons for the same shall be recorded in writing.

2.5.4 Disposal of the report:

a) After concluding its inquiry, the Committee shall prepare a detailed and written report of its
findings. The inquiry report shall specify the details of the charge(s) against the defendant, the
statements made and evidence presented in the inquiry and a discussion of the reasons upon which
the Committee arrived at the findings.
b) No observations regarding the work and behaviour of either the complainant or defendant shall be
made which are not related to the alleged act of sexual harassment.
c) Detailed written report so prepared will be submitted to the Director, IIM Raipur , within 90days
for further necessary action.

31

3. Organisation Chart

The organisation structure of IIM Raipur is given below:

BoG
IIM Raipur

Director

Dean
(Academics)
Dean (Planning
& Research)

Chairpersons/
Co-ordinators
• FPM/EFPM
• PGP
• PGX/PGX
WE
• Areas
• Admissions
• Student
Affairs
• Media
Relations

Chairpersons/
Co-ordinators
• Executive
Education
• Research
• Centres of
Excellence
• Library
• Placement
• International
Relations

Faculty
Members
CAO
FA&CAO

• Administration
• Estate
• Maintenance
• BoG Meetings
• Any matter
related to
Administration
• Finance &
Accounts
• Annual
Reports &
Balance
Sheet
• Meeting
Financial
Statutory
requiremen
ts
• Any
matters
related to
F&A

TA/RA/Administrative Staff of the respective activity Admn. Staff F&A Staff

32

4 Powers & Functions of the Director, Dean(s) and CAO

4.1 Powers & Functions of Director

i) The Director shall be the principal executive officer of the Institute and shall exercise general
supervision and control over the affairs of the Institute and ensure implementation decisions of all
authorities of the Institute.
ii) It shall be the duty of th e Director to ensure that the provisions of the Memorandum of
Association, the Rules and Byelaws of the Institute are faithfully observed and implemented.
iii) If it is in the opinion of the Director that an immediate action is called for, where he is required to
exercise the powers conferred upon on any other authority of the Institute, then he can proceed to
take such action he deems fit in those circumstances by recording reasons and later on at the
earliest, he shall be required to report /ratify the action to such authority whose powers had been
exercised.
iv) The Director shall have the power to send employees (staff/faculty) for training or for a course of
instruction subject to such terms and conditions as may be laid down by the Board from time to
time.
v) The Director, being the principal executive officer of the Institute, shall act as Head of Department
for any Rules/Notifications/OMs of the Central Govt.
vi) All powers relating to the proper maintenance of discipline of the Institute shall vest in the
Director.
vii) The Director shall exercise all other powers as may be delegated to him by the Board of
Governors.
viii) The Director shall have the power to convene meetings of various bodies of the Institute.
ix) Subject to the budget provisions made for a specific purpose, the Director shall have the power to
incur expenditure in accordance with the procedure as may be laid down by the Board from time
to time.
x) In exceptional cases, subject to availability of funds, the Director shall have the power to create
contractual posts with the approval of the Chairperson for not more than two years on approved
pay and shall thereof report to the Board.
xi) The Director shall have the power to employ technical staff/general staff on a contract basis (up
to 2 years) within the overall budgetary allocation of the Institute.
xii) Director shall have powers to engage outsourcing agencies, in the interest of the institute, in areas
such as technical, financial and other specialized areas under intimation to the Board.
xiii) The Director may, during his absence from the headquarter, authorize in writing one of the Deans,
if any, or the faculty member on the Board, to sanction advances for travelling allowance,
contingencies and medical treatment of the employees or any other matter as he/she deems fit.

4.2 Powers& Functions of the Dean (s)

There are two Deans, Dean (Academics) and Dean (Planning & Research). Deans shall be directly
responsible to the Director of the Institute.

i) Dean (Academics)
a) Will be responsible for all Post -Graduate & Doctoral Programmes, including A dmissions,
Academics, International Relations, and Students’ Affairs.

33

b) To develop international linkages with business schools worldwide fo r student and faculty
exchange.
c) To motivate academic excellence with a multidisciplinary faculty, a diverse student body, and the
faculty members, including economic development and other relevant national and international
issues.
d) To lead and manage the Post-Graduate and Fellow Programmes of the institute and in formulating
policies, growth plan, budget and its implementation.
e) To review the course curricula, pedagogy and benchmarking with other IIMs and top schools in
the world.
f) To invite international faculty to teach Post-Graduate and Fellow students.
g) To develop a strong relationship with other IIMs.

ii) Dean (Planning & Research)

a) Will be responsible for Research, Centres of Excellence, Placement of Post -Graduate
Programmes, Executive Education and Campus Development.
b) To foster an organizational, educational , and research climate that promotes and celebrates
excellence is an important priority.
c) To mobilise research grants from national and international funding organisations.
d) To develop external relations with the Government, Public and Private sectors for Re search,
Executive Education and Consultancy
e) To lead and manage the institute-wide planning and research in formulating policies, growth plan,
budget and their implementation.
f) To facilitate organising national and international Conferences, Summits and Seminars
g) To set new benchmarks through national, regional and international accreditations
h) To start new initiatives for the institute in terms of programmes, research, centres, collaboration,
etc.

4.3 Powers & Functions of the CAO

a) The CAO shall be directly responsible to the Director of the Institute.
b) The CAO is the head of general administration, finance and accounts. He shall be the custodian
of records, estate, a seal of the Institute and other property of the Institute.
c) The CAO shall perform other duties as may be specified in the Rules and Bye-laws from time to
time or as per the directions given by the Director from time to time.
d) The CAO shall act as the First Appellate Authority under the RTI Act-2005.
e) The CAO will be the Secretary to the BoG, IIM Raipur

4.4 Delegation of Power

The Delegation of Power has been approved by the BoG in its Meeting held on:

34

Part - I : Delegation of Power to Director
Part – II : Delegation of Financial Powers
Part - III : Delegation of Power for Work

4.5 Delegation of Powers: Part – I: Delegation of Powers to the Director

i) Academic

i. To implement, design, and revise any existing or new full/part -time programmes of study,
training and programmes of study, training and research, leading to the award of diplomas and
titles to be conferred by IIM Raipur.
ii. To enter into Student Exchange Programme agreements with Indian and Foreign Universities,
wherein no expenditure is envisaged for IIM Raipur except granting facilities such as
accommodation, course materials and tuition fee waiver to the visiting students, whenever the
counterpart institution grants such facilities to IIM Raipur students free of cost.
iii. To enter into corporate partnerships with Indian or Foreign companies for executive education,
wherein IIM Raipur agrees to conduct a series of training programmes spread over a number of
years for a corporate client or a group of clients. These activities are expected to generate a
surplus for IIM Raipur.
iv. To enter into collaborative arrangements with foreign universities to offer open or customized
training programmes. These are expected to generate a surplus for IIM Raipur.
v. To accept endowments for establishing Faculty Chairs from individuals, public/private limited
companies in India or abroad, Government or quasi -Government organisations and supra
national organisations such as IMF, RBI, ILO, World Bank etc.
vi. To accept recurring grants/sponsorships or enter into collaborative arrangements for establishing
Faculty Chairs or Centers from individuals, public/private limited companies in India or abroad,
Government or quasi-Government organisations and supra national organisations such as IMF,
RBI, ILO, World Bank etc.
vii. To enter into collaborative research projects or programmes with Indian or foreign universities
or institutions wherein no net expenditure by IIM Raipur in excess of 10 Lakh over and above
the funding provided by the external funding agency.
viii. To register as a Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (SIRO) with the Ministry of
Science and Technology. To register under FCRA and accept foreign contributions. To operate
bank accounts in foreign currency.
ix. To register as a wholly charitable society with the Income Tax Department.
x. To claim exemption u/s 10(23c) (iiiab) of Income Tax Act, 1961.
xi. To register for service tax in respect of the services rendered by IIM Raipur faculty under the
head “Management Consultancy/Event Management/Convention Service” under the Central
Excise Department.
xii. To register under any other law that may become applicable to IIM Raipur from time to time.
xiii. To sanction seed money for research projects/case study. To revise such amounts from time to
time.

35

xiv. To accept externally funded research projects/assignments or consultancy assignments and to
assign the project to one or more faculty. The details of such projects, together with the name of
the faculty to be included in the Director’s Report to the Board.
xv. To accord sanction to outsource part of the work to outside professionals/agencies.
xvi. To appoint project -tied temporary research staff. Such staff may be remunerated wither on a
lump sum basis, monthly basis, on reaching milestones or in other ways.
xvii. To sanction honoraria/incentives with respect to externally funded projects , provided the time
devoted for research/consultancy for which payment is being made is counted towards an overall
ceiling of 52 days per year , and the honoraria/incentive is specifically provided for in the
research/consulting budget.
xviii. To undertake the publication of IIM Raipur’s journals, periodicals and other publications in the
furtherance of research and academic activities.
xix. To apply for and obtain patents and copyrights in respect of the intellectual property in the name
of the Institute or jointly with another party.
xx. To commercially exploit intellectual property rights and enter into suitable arrangements with
parties concerned.
xxi. To accept consultancy assignments from the Government and private bodies/institutions and to
enter into agreements and carry out the assignment as per the Consultancy.

ii) Executive Educations

i. To approve the target participation and financial budget , including the fees to be charged in
respect of the open, customized and partnership programmes and international programmes.
ii. To approve cancellation of a programme and write off of expenditure booked against the
programme.
iii. To refund the participants’ fees for non-participation on a case-to-case basis.
iv. To approve a schedule of charges for boarding and lodging in Management Development Centre
(MDC), Executive Block and classrooms and sanction expenditure for housekeeping/purchases
within the approved budget estimates.
v. To approve the award of contracts for catering, maintenance of MDC, Executive Block, utility
store, bookstore, merchandise store, or other such establishments on campus.
vi. To fix the overall budget for expenditure to be incurred in respect of open programmes in a
financial year towards advertisements, the printing of brochures and pamphlets.
vii. To fix the honorarium of guest faculty.
viii. To engage the services of outside agencies or experts for specific needs of the executive
programmes (e.g. Conducted tours, yoga, meditation classes etc.)

iii) Faculty Appointments

i. To appoint Full, Associate and Assistant Professors against sanctioned posts.
ii. To fix the initial pay of the faculty by granting up to 10 advance increments after protecting the
last pay drawn by the faculty in his/her earlier position. Such appointments must , however, be
reported to the Board at the earliest.

36

iii. To appoint visiting fac ulty against sanctioned posts and to fix his/her remuneration and other
terms.
iv. To appoint adjunct Faculty to teach specific courses on a part -time basis and fix his/her
remuneration.
v. To accord the following kinds of leave under the rules governing the same:
• Study leave
• Sabbatical leave
• Extra ordinary leave up to 2 years to take up employment in another organization and to
depute faculty to another organisation for advanced research.

vi. Such approvals should, however, be reported to the Board at the earliest.
vii. To permit deputation of faculty to serve in another organisation in India or abroad , including
under schemes sponsored by the Central Government. Such deputations are to be reported to the
Board at the earliest.
viii. Approval to attend seminars/workshops in India or abroad and also sanction the participation
fees and travel allowance as per rules governing the same or that sanctioned by the sponsoring
organization in full or in part. Such participation by faculty may be mentioned in the Director’s
Report.
ix. To reimburse expenses on the development of course material for education and training,
sanction book allowances , etc., from income earned out of Executive Education
Programmes/IIM Raipur Endowment Fund. Also , to approve expenditure on Faculty
Development like the fee for the membership of Professional bodies. Such amounts may be
revised from time to time.
x. To accord permission to the faculty to accept the part-time nomination on the Board of Directors
of companies/ organizations, Board of studies of academic institutions as an examiner, evaluator
etc. Nominations to the Board of Directors are to be reported to the Board in the next meeting.

iv) Personnel

i. The Director, as the Executive Head of the organization , is vested with full powers to uphold
general discipline and ensure the proper conduct of the employees of the institute. He shall be
the appointing authority and the disciplinary authority in respect of all employees.
ii. To make appointments and to effect promotions to all sanctioned non -faculty posts, including
the CAO, FA&CAO, and librarian, in accordance with the recruitment and promotion rules.
iii. Subject to the budget provision being made, to make appointments for the specific period under
IIM Raipur (Contract Appointment) Rules to meet the needs of specialized expertise from time
to time.
iv. To accept resignation from service and permit voluntary retirement under the rules of IIM
Raipur.
v. To accept a request for condonation of the notice period.
vi. To order premature retirement (Other than faculty) as per rules framed from time to time.
vii. To terminate temporary appointment by giving the required Notice or by payment of the salary
in lieu of the notice period to the extent considered necessary.
viii. To impose penalties, major or minor, on all members of faculty and employees for whom he is
the appointing authority.

37

ix. To approve deputation of an employee to another Government/non-Government for a period not
exceeding 2 years at a time.
x. To sanction retirement benefits to the retiring employees in accordance with the service rules
governing the same.
xi. To sanction a periodical increase in DA and other allowances and ad hoc bonus as extended to
the employees of autonomous bodies by the Ministry of Education.
xii. To sanction interest -bearing/non-interest-bearing advances to the employees in terms of IIM
Raipur rules.
xiii. To sanction travelling allowance in accordance with the rules of IIM Raipur to the employees,
members of the Board of Governors, guest faculty, people attending interviews, candidates
attending fellowship programmes, and retiring employees to enable them to settle down at a
place other than Raipur.
xiv. To sanction Leave Travel Concession/Allowance in accordance with the rules of IIM Raipur.
To modify, if necessary, such rules from time to time.
xv. To sanction reimbursement of medical expenses to the employe es and their dependents in
accordance with the scheme approved by the Board of Governors.
xvi. To sanction, under special circumstances, reimbursement of medical expenses to employees and
their dependents not covered in the above scheme.
xvii. To sanction other entitlements to employees such as tuition fees, conveyance charges etc. To
modify/introduce new entitlements from time to time.
xviii. To sanction leave of all kinds to employees , including faculty, in accordance with IIM Raipur
leave rules.
xix. To sanction incentives in respect of approved schemes for passing Hindi examinations, other
departmental examinations, promoting small family norms; special awards instituted for long
and meritorious service.
xx. To allot or cancel the allotment of quarters and to exercise full powers under the Quarters
Allotment Rules of IIM Raipur, and to fix charges for electricity, water and other services.
xxi. To appoint casual labourers on a daily rate (other than for work of regular nature) for seasonal
or intermittent nature of work, for which regular posts cannot be created, at minimum wages
notified by the State Government. Such appointments shall comply with the provision of the
Contract Labour (Regulations and Abolition) Act, 1970.

v) Financial

i. To act as a custodian of property and assets to take such action as is considered necessary to
safeguard the title to ownership and rights over property and assets of IIM Raipur.
ii. To defend on behalf of the In stitute/Society or refer to cases of arbitration to execute and sign
contracts, memorandum of understandings, lawsuit, legal documents, indemnity bonds,
authenticate applications, etc., in respect of the affairs of IIM Raipur.
iii. To open and operate bank accounts, including foreign currency accounts.
iv. To sign cheques along with FA & CAO/ CAO as the second signatory beyond Rs. One Lakh.
v. To open DEMAT accounts and entrust custodial services and sign-on applications and discharge
documents. To open letters of Credit, sign declarations, undertakings of certificates warranted

38

by various authorities such as RBI, Income Tax, Customs and Central Excise, Passport and other
official agencies.
vi. To approve short term investments of the Institute, i.e. for a period of less than 1 year.
vii. To engage the services of specialists such as accountants, advocates, architects, designers or any
other professionals and fix their remuneration in respect of projects.
viii. To write off cash losses up to Rs. 10,000 in each case , ascertaining that the loss is not due to
theft, fraud or negligence.

vi) Purchase - Capital

i. To approve special requests for capital investments which are not approved in the budget.
ii. To approve Capital investments of significant value after consideration of their financial impact.
iii. Awarding of contracts after final selection by a Purchase Committee.
iv. Approving amendments to any change in prices of contracts already awarded.
v. Extension of time beyond the stipulated date of completion of work without a levy of penalty,
in exceptional cases due to a strong in signification under intimation to the Finance Committee.
vi. To accord approval for revised estimates in respect of capital work up to a maximum of 20 per
cent of the contract value.

vii) Revenue - Purchase

i. IIM Raipur shall operate with a panel of approved contractors. Generally , there shall be a
minimum of 3 and a maximum of 6 such contractors for each type of job. Assessment of the
contractors to be carried out as laid down in GFR-2005.
ii. To review the performance of such contractors on a periodic basis and terminate the contract/
contracts if found unsuitable.
iii. To incur any revenue expenditure as provided in the annual budget or against any provision.
iv. To sanction revenue expenditure other than that provided in the budget.
v. Incur expenditure of non -recurring nature for functional needs , including expenditure on
seminars, workshops, and special events.
vi. To extend financial aid to deserving students by appropriate schemes of fees waiver,
scholarships, prizes, awards and other incentives to students.
vii. To extend prizes, awards and other financial incentives to deserving employees , both teaching
and non-teaching, through appropriate schemes.
viii. To incur expenditure on entertainment and hospitality on visiting dignitaries and other visitors
to the institute.
ix. To sanction institution of lawsuits or prosecution and to incur necessary expenditure.
x. Write off assets and stock losses after making a suitable enquiry, if the same cannot be made
good and after ascertaining that the loss is not due to theft, fraud or negligence.
xi. To write off obsolete, unserviceable and redundant assets and consumables.
xii. To write off assets and consumables if they have been lost due to theft, fire or any other natural
disaster.

39

xiii. To approve the disposal of assets and consumables under auction/tender or by a buy -back
arrangement.
xiv. To appoint a committee from among the employees of IIM Raipur in connection with achieving
the various short term/ long term objectives of the institute.
xv. To take such measures as are considered necessary in exigency of service not herein specifically
provided for, in the overall interest of IIM Raipur. Such matters will be reported to the
Chairperson/Board at the earliest.
xvi. To delegate his /her powers to the Dean, CAO and FA&CAO to the extent considered by him/her
to be necessary for the smooth and efficient functioning of the institute.
xvii. To define, specify and prescribe rules and procedures, manuals etc., to regulate the working of
functional areas and responsibilities of officers and staff in the organization.

4.6 Delegation of Powers: Part – II: Delegation of Financial Powers

Sl.
No.

Nature of Power Director Dean CAO Remarks

1. Purchase of books,
periodicals, Journals,
Newspapers etc. for
library
Full power Chairperson, Library
Committee - Rs.1 Lakh
per transaction and
Librarian - Rs 50000 per
transaction.
2. Purchase of stationery
for office use
Full power Rs. 25,000
each
purchase
Rs.15,000
each
purchase
This power should be
exercised after following
the usual purchase
3. Printing of forms &
brochures MDP;
placement, PGP,
PGPEX, Admission etc.
Full power Rs. 2 lakhs
each
purchase
Rs. 1 lakh
each
purchase
This power is to be
exercised after observing
the usual purchase
procedure Quarterly
report is to be submitted
to Director by FA&CAO
4. Purchase /hiring of
office equipment,
computers, software,
Installation/
development of networking systems etc.
Up to Rs 25
lakhs for each
case
Rs. 1 lakh
in each case
Rs 50,000 in
each case
As per purchase
procedure and quarterly
report to Director to be
made by FA&CAO. This
power is to be exercised
after the usual purchase
procedure.
5. Purchase of furniture -
Hostels, classrooms,
Canteens, office, MOP
etc.
Full power Rs. 2 lakhs
each case
Rs. 50,000
each case
This power is to be exercised
after observing the usual
purchase procedure Quarterly
report is to be submitted to
Director by FA&CAO
6. Purchase of books,
newspaper periodicals,
magazines, etc. for
office use
Full power Rs. 5,000
for each
case
Rs. 1,000
each case

7. Maintenance and repair
of furniture/equipment
Full power Rs.1,00,000
each case
Rs. 50,000
each case
This power is to be
exercised after the usual
procedure to be followed
by dealing with AO.

40

Same remarks as above;
Quarterly report to be
submitted to the Director
by FAO
8. Repair of vehicles
Existing
Full power Full power Same remarks as above;
Quarterly report to be
submitted to the Director
by FAO
9. Repairs and
maintenance of
Institute's buildings,
roads, auditorium,
Gym, Residential
Quarter, MDP; Eng,
Administration
Full power Rs.
2,00,000
each
contract
Rs, 1,00,000
each
contract
This power should be
exercised on the. basis of
competitive tender
Quarterly report to be
submitted to the Director
by FAO
10. Advertisement
charges-including press
and publicity matter
Full power Rs. 1 lakh
for each
case
Rs. 50,000
each case
Order to be placed after
following usual purchase
procedures.
11. Binding of books and
records
Full power Rs. 25,000
each case
Rs. 5,000
each case
Chairperson, Library
Committee: Rs.25,000
each-case and Librarian :
Rs.5,000 each case
12. Telephone, mobile,
postage & ranking
charges and other
communication
facilities in connection
with official purposes
Full power

Full powers
except for
overseas
calls
As per the Work order
and Rules of the Institute
13. Travelling advance
Existing
Full power Full power
for other
officers &
Staff
Travel to be approved by
the competent authority.
14. Grant of air journey Full power - - As per IIM Raipur Rules
15. Reimbursement of
conveyance charges
incurred for an official
purpose (including taxi
fare)
Full power Full power
for other
officers/
staff subject
to a limit of
Rs 1,000
p.m. /
employee
It should be ensured that an
economical mode of transport
is availed of. A quarterly
status of expense should be
submitted to the Director by
FAO. Recommendations
should come through the
respective Chairperson/ HOD
16. To sanction LTC
advance and
reimbursement
Full power Full power
in respect of
other
officers and
staff
As per prevailing LTC
Rules/entitlements.
17. Sanction of
OT/honorarium
allowances etc. to the
employees of the
Institute
Full power Full powers
for OT to
Drivers and
Security
staff / as per
A quarterly statement
should be submitted to
the Director by the
FA&CAO indicating OT
sanctioned during the

41

rules quarter
18. Refreshment charges
& supply of light
refreshments during
meetings, conferences
etc. in connection with
visits of VIPs,
Dignitaries, Outside
Faculty Delegations
and other hospitality
charges in the Institute
Full power Rs.2,000.00
per Meeting
Rs. 1000.00
per Meeting
Quarterly report to be
submitted to Director by
FA&CAO
19. Employment of casual
and muster roll labour
to be paid from
contingency
Full power Rs 15,000
p.m.
The rate of daily wage shall
be the same as fixed by the
local authority from time to
time. Quarterly report to be
given to the Director by
FA&CAO
20. Purchase of motor
vehicles, buses etc. for
the Institute's work
Full power For fresh cases, the
Board is to be apprised of
information. For
replacement after the
usual procedure.
21. Purchase of liveries for
supply to Institute's
employees
Full power This power should be
exercised after observing
the usual purchase
procedure
22. Purchase of crockeries
and other furnishing,
materials for staff
canteen, hostels,
including for guest house
Full power Rs. 20,000
each case
Rs. 10,000
in each case
This power should be
exercised after observing
the usual purchase
procedure by respective
AOs.
23. Purchase of fuel,
lubricant, spare parts,
etc. of vehicles of the
Institutes
Full power Full power A statement of
consumption of fuel &
lubricant per vehicle
should be submitted to
the Director quarterly by
AO (Transportation)
24. Refund of deposits of
earnest money and
caution money student)
Full power - Full power After recommendation
by the relevant or
concerned officials
25. Write off
unserviceable.
Material / stores/
furniture/ equipment
Rs. 1,00,000
p.a.
This power should be
exercised on the
recommendation of a
committee formed for
this purpose. The value
of an individual item
should not exceed Rs
5,000/-
26. Write off the shortage
of cash found during
the disbursement
Rs.500 p.a. This power should be
exercised on the
recommendation of the
FA&CAO.

42

27. Write off the
irrecoverable value of
stores/Institute's money
Rs. 10,000 Rs. 2000/- No store loss or cash loss
should be split up to
bring within the power of
the sanctioning authority.
All losses should be
written off only after
proper scrutiny
28. Waiver of loans &
advances
Rs. 1.000/-each
individual case
This power should be in
consultation with the
FA&CAO.
29. Refund of revenue
(student fees, MDP
participation fees), etc.
Full power This power should be
exercised in consultation
with FA&CAO and
following processes and
rules.
30. Recreational and
welfare activities
Full power Rs.
1,00.000 pa
single event
Subject to a budget
provision approved.
31. Medical claim Full power Rs. 50,000 This power should be as
per prescribed Medical
Reimbursement Rules
and limits.
32. To refund earnest
money/security deposit
of contractors/
suppliers
Full power Full power Subject to approved
terms of the contract.
33. Legal expenses for
Institute work
Full power Rs. 10,000
per case
On the recommendation
of dealing with AO
34. The reappropriation of
funds (excluding
reappropriation
between plan and nonplan budget);
Full power,
subject to the
maximum limit
of 10% of the
approved
provision of
plan and nonplan budget
This power should be
exercised total provision
plan, and the non-plan
budget is not exceeded

35. To sanction expenses
for campus
maintenance,
excluding repair and
maintenance of
buildings, roads etc.
(item no. 9)
Full power Rs.25,000
each case
Rs. 10,000
for each
case.
Includes horticulture,
pisciculture, gardening,
jungle clearance, water
bodies cleaning etc.

36. To declare stores/office
pieces of equipment, as
surplus/unserviceable
to Fix their selling
price and prescribe
their mode of disposal
Full power This power should be
exercised on
recommendation by a
committee of of which
FAO should be a
member.
37. To sanction
deposit/advances with
Full power To be exercised with the
consultation will CAO

43

P&T authorities and
other statutory bodies
and FA&CAO.
38. To sanction
deposit/advance with
other than statutory
bodies
Full power
39. To sanction PF
advance
Full power

Full power
for other
officers and
staff
As per prevailing rules-
(For the Director,
Sanctioning authority is
Chairperson, BOG)
40. To sanction festival
flood advance and
other approved
advances (Fan
advance, FFRA etc.)
Full power Full power This power is to be
exercised as per the
existing rules.
41. To sanction
bicycle/scooter/car
advance
Full power Full power
for bicycle
and scooter
Subject to rules and
recommendation of the
designated Committee
42. To sanction House
Building
Full power This power should be
exercised as per rules and
the recommendation of
the designated
Committee
43. To sanction installation
of telephone/
fax/communication
systems
Full power As per the approved
budget.
44. To sanction imprest/
advance to employees
Full power To be exercised in
consultation with CAO
and FA&CAO.
45. Students and Alumni
activities.
Full power Rs.25,000
in each case

46. To take on rent/lease of
buildings (or Institute's
activities and for
residential purposes of
faculty and other
members of the
Institute
Full power As per prevailing rules
.and procedures, the
BOG is to be periodically
informed.
47. Payment of licence
fees and taxes
Full power Full power Duly processed and
recommended by
respective AOs.
48. To sanction
contingency expense
Full power Rs. 5,000
each case
Rs. 1,000
each case

49. To sanction plan for
infrastructure
development &
modification
Full power Rs.50,000 This should be done on
the basis of the
competitive lender and
within an approved
budget.

44

50. Payment to students
council/ Employees.
Recreation club/'Staff
canteen subsidy/ other
welfare measures
Full power As per prevailing
rules/practice.

4.7 Delegation of Powers: Part-III: Delegation of Powers for works

SI.
No
Nature of Power Designation/
Authority
Extent of Power
1 Approval of estimate/ Accord
of technical sanction to
detailed estimates
PE cum Estate
Officer
Rs. 10.00 lakhs
Director Rs. 200.00 lakhs
CCC Rs. 500.00 Lakhs
BoG Full Powers
2 Authorizing excess
overestimates
PE cum Estate
Officer
Excess up to 5% of the sanctioned amount.
The excess over and above 5% of the sanctioned
amount is to be brought before the Director/
Campus Construction Committee for
clearance/approval.
Director Full powers for estimates approved by Director
(i.e.Rs.200.00 lakhs)
CCC Rs.500 Lakhs
BoG Full Powers
3 Acceptance of lowest tender PE cum Estate
Officer
Rs. 10.00 lakhs
Director Rs. 200.00 lakhs
CCC Rs. 500.00 lakhs
BoG Full powers
4 Acceptance of Single Tender PE cum Estate
Officer
Rs.2.00 lakhs
Director Rs.50.00 lakhs
CCC Rs. 200.00 lakhs
BoG Full Powers
5 Award of work by
negotiation with lowest
tenderer / single tenderer
PE cum Estate
Officer
Rs. 5.00 lakhs
Director Rs. 100.00 lakhs
CCC Rs. 300.00 lakhs
BoG Full Powers
6 Award of work by acceptance
of a tender other than the
lowest
Director
CCC Rs. 200.00 Lakhs
BoG Full Powers

45

7 Award of work without a call
of tenders
PE cum Estate
Officer
Rs. 2.00 lakhs
Director Rs. 5.00 lakhs
CCC Rs. 50.00 lakhs
BoG Full powers
8 Award of additional
quantities against abnormally
high/low rated items
PE cum Estate
Officer
Rs. 25000.00
Director Rs. 5.00 lakh
CCC Rs. 50.00Lakhs
9 Execution of agreement PE cum Estate
Officer
Full powers
10 Accord of sanction to
extra/substituted items
PE cum Estate
Officer
Rs. 1.00 lakh
Director Rs. 25.00 lakhs
CCC Rs. 100.00 lakhs
BoG Full powers
11 Grant of extension of time for
completion of work
PE cum Estate
Officer
Rs. 10.00 lakhs
Director Rs. 100.00 lakhs
CCC Rs. 200.00 lakhs
BoG Full powers
12 Powers to levy compensation
from contractors
Director Rs.50.00 lakhs
CCC Rs.100.00 lakhs
BoG Full powers
13 Passing of bills (final bills
and running bills)
PE cum Estate
Officer
Full powers
14 Purchase of materials against
sanctioned estimate/
allocation for emergent work
PE cum Estate
Officer
Up to Rs. 50000/- at a time subject to a ceiling of
Rs. 50,000 in a year
Director Upto Rs. 5.00 lakhs at a time subject to a ceiling
of Rs. 500.00 lakhs in a year

Legend:
PE cum State Officer: Project Engineer cum Estate Officer
BoG: Board of Governors
CCC: Campus Construction Committee

Note: It is proposed to review this document to make modifications as and when necessary.
Construction Committee may be read as Campus Construction Committee

46

5 Faculty Recruitment Policy

5.1 Recruitment Process

IIM Raipur considers faculty recruitment as one of the top priorities in its endeavour to become a world-class
Institute. Considering the significance of completing the recruitment process in a timely manner, the whole process
is supposed to be completed in 8 -11 weeks. The overall faculty recruitment process can be explained through the
flowchart depicted below

Figure 1. Flow diagram of the FRP
Note: Application screening shall be done by the FRC excluding the Director. Dean (Academic) will Chair this
Screening Committee. FRC consist of Director, Dean Academics, Chair PGP, Chairperson FPM, Chairperson
placements and Chairperson SAKSHAM.

Kindly refer to the faculty recruitment policy document (internal) given as Annexure 1 for more information about
the process.

5.2 Type of Faculty Positions

a) Tenure track Faculty (Regular Stream) at Professor/Associate Professor/Assistant Professor levels:
Full-time faculty members joining the institute on a regular basis shall be appointed as Assistant Professor,
Associate Professor or Professor upon meeting the specified criteria for the regular appointment. The
paramount consideration for the appointment of an employee shall be the necessity for securing the highest
standards of competence, efficiency, integrity, and subject area requirements. The regular faculty of the
Institute will be eligible for salary and allowances as per Government of India norms. Minimum
qualifications for all the positions are given under section 5.3.
Initial reply
Screening applications
Suitability
Thank you email
Invitation for FRP
Candidate confirmation
YES
NO
NO
FRP information to be sent to
candidate seeking travel plan,
CV, seminar title & abstract
along with the publications
Itinerary to be sent to the
candidate from the Dean’s office
Campus visit (2 days):
Area interaction (day 1)
Seminar & Interview
(day 2)
YES
Application submission
By Director’s Office(within a week)
By FRC
2 weeks in
advance
(Thank you and regret mail
in case of area saturation)
The Director’s call
Documents
received
Travel plan to the Travel desk
and the Dean’s office
CV, seminar title, abstract
and publication to the
respective Area chairs

47

b) Professor Emeritus: Senior Professors who have made significant contributions to the theory and practice
of management, keen to act as mentors to young faculty and direct the future of teaching and research in
their areas. A Ph.D. degree in any discipline with at least 10 years of experience at the level of Professor in
a reputed international or national level academic institute is essential. This position will entail an initial
one-year appointment, renewable for one or more years depending upon requirement of the Institute.
Consolidated monthly remuneration will be based on the profile of the individual but will not be less than
the total pay drawn by a Professor at HAG (Higher Academic Grade) level as per 7th CPC. Residential
accommodation and medical facilities will be provided as per IIM rules.

c) Professor of Practice: Individual with an outstanding track record of success in senior leadership positions
from private or public organizations. Successful candidates must demonstrate professional excellence and
leadership in management or a closely related field, normally through distinguished service in senior-level
positions over an extended period.

A post-graduation in any discipline with at least 15 years of experience is essential of which at least 5 years
should be at senior level. This position will entail an initial one -year appointment, renewable for one or
more years depending upon the performance of the individual and requirement of the Institute.

This is a full -time position and those who are selected are expected to be involved in all the institute
activities including teaching, training, consulting, and administration. The selected candidate may be
offered a position of ‘Associate Professor of Practice’ or ‘Professor of Practice’ depending on the
experience and qualification. Consolidated monthly remuneration will be based on the profile of the
individual but will not be less than the total pay drawn by a professor/associate professor as decided from
time to time

d) Adjunct Faculty: For teaching specialized courses or otherwise where there is a faculty shortage at the
institutional level, adjunct faculty shall be considered for teaching a full or a part thereof in a long duration
program. Such position shall be normally given to an international faculty who will typically spend a
semester or so in the Institute and engage in teaching activities. Areas concerned, along with the program
chairperson, shall identify the suitable candidate(s) for Adjunct faculty. In consultation with the Dean and
respective Chairpersons, the Director shall decide the terms of appointment.

e) Distinguished/Senior Fellows: Distinguished scholars, professionals or civil servants may be invited as
Distinguished/ Senior Fellows. The offer shall be for a maximum period of two years, and a consolidated
honorarium, based on the candidate’s academic/ professional credentials, shall be paid.

f) Faculty Fellow: Early career young scholars holding a Ph.D. degree, with demonstrated superior
publication record who are found not yet ready for a regular position and need some hand holding can be
appointed as faculty fellow. Initially, the appointment will be for a period of three years with an option to
join the regular stream at suitable level after completion of the fellowship, if found suitable based on their
performance to be evaluated by FRC. Consolidated monthly remuneration will be offered at an entry level oof the
Assistant Professor Grade.

g) Chair Assistant Professor / Chair Associate Professor/ Chair Professor : Those faculties who are
interested in working on emerging green field areas/topics and establish research centers or projects can be
appointed for such positions. They are expected to generate significant contribution relevant to theory and
practice resulting in high impact scholarly publications and/or influence professional practice by training
or consulting during the period of appointment. Initially, the appointment will be for a period of three years
with an option to join the regular stream at suitable level after completion of the chairship, if found suitable
based on the performance to be evaluated by FRC. Consolidated monthly remuneration will be based on
the profile of the individual but will not be less than the total pay drawn by an Assistant Professor/Associate

48

Professor/Professor as decided from time to time. In addition, liberal research grants will be provided based
on specific proposal.

h) Guest Faculty: Industry/ subject experts shall be invited to take a few sessions (not more than 20% of
regular sessions) and share special expertise in a long duration program or MDP. The concerned course
faculty or MDP program director shall be responsible for identifying such faculty. They shall be entitled to
the payment of honorarium as per the norms at that time

i) Visiting Faculty (non -residential): Professional, practitioners, or academicians who are invited by the
Area to teach one full course or a part thereof in long duration courses will come under this category. They
will be paid honorarium as per the rules of IIM Raipur. Their lodging and boarding will also be taken care
by the Institute.

j) Visiting Faculty (Residential): For the recently super annuated/retired faculty members from premier
national level institutions, academicians seeking to spend a sabbatical period at IIM Raipur, candidates
under Fulbright or from International Exchange Partners of IIM Raipur, and candidates from abroad who
could not go through the formal recruitment process, can be appointed under this category. Recently
superannuated faculty from IIM Raipur will also be eligible for this position. The appointment shall be
made by the Director in consultation with the Dean and Area concerned. They shall be exempted from the
process followed for regular appointments. Fixed -term appointees for two or more years are eligible for
proportionate annual vacation/earned leave, casual leave, medical facility and LTC. They are also eligible
for campus housing facility subject to its availability and the terms of the agreement.

k) Visiting Faculty (Contract Appointments - regular scale/ consolidated salary ): Doctoral candidates
having completed the final defence but with less than three years’ experience can be appointed as Visiting
Assistant Professor on a contract basis on a consolidated salary based on the prevailing DA at the time.
These candidates shall be appointed through the same process as followed for regular appointments. Based
on the faculty performance and requirements at IIM Raipur, the duration of the appointment may be
extended by issuing a fresh offer. If any visiting faculty seeks to take a regular tenure track position, he/she
shall have to undertake the tenure track faculty recruitment process, as applicable at that time. Upon
regularization, the Director may consider some or all of the current contract period as normal service to the
advantage of the candidate. Exemption from a seminar may be granted, if the applicant has already
delivered the same during the process of contractual appointment.

Note: The FRC will have the powers to approve/disapprove a guest faculty (for 1-5 hours engagement) or Visiting
faculty (for 6-50 hours engagement) or adjunct faculty (for 51-180 hours engagement), or a professor of practice
(for 181-300 hours engagement).
The FRC and Directors' office will maintain a database of such faculty recruitment/hiring engagements (for ten
years) to ensure that past lessons are considered and repeat mistakes are avoided.

5.3 Minimum Qualifications & Experience Requirements for Faculty Positions

For academic positions, designations, qualifications, experience and pay scales for various regular positions shall
be governed and as per the directions from the Ministry of Education. Minimum Qualification (for all faculty
positions): PhD in an appropriate branch with first class or equivalent (in terms o f grades, etc.) at the preceding
degree, with an 1excellent academic record throughout. In addition, for:

1 As an indicator of good academic record, it is suggested that candidates may preferably have first class,
however, should have a minimum of 55 percent marks at every stage of their academic career.

49

i) Professor:
Minimum 10 years of teaching/research/industrial experience, of which at least 4 years should be at the
level of Associate Professor in IITs, IIMs, NITIE, IISc Bangalore, NITIE Mumbai, and IISERs or at an
equivalent level in any such other Indian or foreign institution/institutions of comparable standards.

ii) Associate Professor:
Minimum 6 years of teaching/research/industrial experience, of which at least 3 years should be at the level
of Assistant Professor or equivalent. Candidates from industry (Government / PSU / Research Organization)
must have experience of 6 years at the level equivalent to Assistant Professor

iii) Assistant Professor:
Minimum 3 years of teaching/research/industrial experience (excluding the period of doing a PhD). A fresh
PhD may be considered for the position on a contractual basis. 2 Candidates from industry (Government /
PSU / Research Organization) must have experience of 3 years at the level equivalent to Assistant Professor.

However, in exceptional cases of candidates with excellent academic credentials, this experience
requirement may be waived. A fresh Ph.D. may be considered for the position on contract basis.

Note: For all the above positions, rules applicable for internal candi dates will be applicable to the
candidates applying through an open position

iv) Assistant Professor Grade-II

A candidate who is not eligible for Assistant Professor Grade-I may be appointed as Assistant Professor
Grade-II. At the entry-level, s/he may be placed in Academic Level 10 and shall move after 1 year to
Academic Level 11. After 3 years in Academic Level 10 & 11 together, s/he may be brought on a regular
position as Assistant Professor Grade-I in Academic Level 12, based on his/her performance.

Pay Band:

Academic Level 10 (Rs. 57,700 – Rs. 98,200)
For Fresh recruits, minimum pay in the Pay Matrix is to be fixed at Rs.84,700/ p.m.
OR
Academic Level 11 (Rs. 68,900 – Rs. 1,17,200)
One-year post PhD experience – Rs.89,900/ p.m.
Two years post Ph.D. experience – Rs.92,600/p.m.

5.4 Recruitment Process for Tenure track positions

An open selection system shall be applied for the recruitment to Tenure track faculty positions. The requisite
qualifications and experience for different levels shall be as per Ministry of Education guidelines applicable
at that time.

i) IIM Raipur will follow a rolling recruitment process. Besides the permanent announcement for fac ulty
positions on the IIM Raipur website, applications will be invited through advertisements in prominent
newspapers.
ii) The faculty review and recruitment committee (FRC), will periodically shortlist the candidates based on
the criteria notified and inputs received from the Area

2 PhD status should be awarded at the time of seminar process.

50

iii) The shortlisted candidates shall be invited by the Director/Dean’s office for a seminar presentation on a
topic of their academic interest.
iv) Collated feedback will be placed at the time of the personal interview before the Faculty S election
Committee (FSC).
v) The composition of the Faculty Selection Committee will be as follows:
• Director, IIM Raipur – Chairperson, Faculty Selection Committee
• One member from the Board of Governors
• Minimum two approved subject experts
The Director/ Dean, in consultation with respective area chairpersons , shall identify the subject area
experts. Final approval shall be from the Director.
vi) For the selection of a Tenure track faculty, criteria shall include the candidate’s academic qualifications,
academic/ industry experience (years and quality), number and quality of publications, experience in
academic administration, and seminar feedback. The Faculty Selection Committee shall decide regarding
designation, starting salary etc. The recommendations of this committee shall be placed before the
Chairperson, Board of Governors for his/ her approval.
vii) Recommendation letters will be obtained from two referees mentioned by the candidates in the
application forms.
viii) Upon the approval of Chairperson BoG, the appointment letters will be issued by the Director

Note: If a candidate’s academic credentials are excellent however, and s/he does not have requisite
research publications or experience, he/she may be considered for a contractual appointment. For the post
of Professor, the requirement of research publication may be relaxed by the Director if the applicant is
from the industry with requisites qualifications and relevant experience.

Note: The shortlisting will be done only for those candidates who have (a) a minimum two year’s industry
experience along with one ABDC ‘A’ category publication (or above) in referred journals; OR (b) the
candidate has a minimum of two ABDC ‘A’ category publication (or above) in referred journals.

5.5 Internal Candidates Seeking Higher Position

The permanent faculty member of IIM Raipur who wishes to be considered for higher positions should apply
for promotion. Besides meeting the minimum qualification requirement for that position as given below, their
performance should be evaluated by the FRC according to the performance criteria stipulated for this purpose.
Their performance shall be evaluated as per the five parameters decided by the Institute and explained in
Chapter 7. Upon accepting their application, such candidates will have to appear for a selection interview by
the Board-level selection committee. There shall be an exemption from delivering the faculty seminar.

i) From Assistant Professor to Associate Professor
• A minimum required period of 3 years at the previous position.
• A minimum total of 6 years’ experience (including experience in other organizations).
• A faculty member has completed the minimum teaching requirement every year. Degree level
course feedback ranging above 50% in at least two courses in trailing one-year.
• At least two A-level publications in the trailing three years.
• Preference for FPM/Ph.D. guidance and involvement in institution building activities.
• People with a high level of academic and administrative contributions may be given relaxation in
research contribution.

51

ii) From Associate Professor to Professor
• A minimum required period of 4 years in the previous position;
• A Minimum total of 10 years’ experience (including experience in other organizations);
• A faculty member has completed minimum teaching requirement every year;
• Degree level course feedback ranging above 50% in at least two courses in trailing one-year or
similar.
• At least 2 A-level publications in the trailing three years.
• Preference for FPM/Ph.D. guidance and involvement in institution building activities; and
• People with a high level of contribution to academic and administrative activities may be given
relaxation in research contribution.

Important:
Any proven case of compromise on personal or professional integrity will be viewed severely, and no
increments or promotions will be given irrespective of performance in other criteria.

5.6 Terms & Conditions of Appointment:

i) General Terms & Conditions for all positions

• An a ppointment letter will be issued only after obtaining recommendation letter s from the two
referees, as per ( Annexure V). Offer may be made to the selected candidate i f recommendations by
both the referees are minimum good.
• All appointments are subject to a satisfactory medical report by a medical officer approved by the
Institute. Candidates shall bear expenses of the medical examination.
• Appointment to all types of permanent posts in the Institute shall be made on probation for a period
of one year. If the probation is to be extended, the employee would be intimated within three months
from the date of completion of two years of the probation period.
• All appointment letters are subject to the candidate’s antecedents and credentials being found genuine
and satisfactory. If any discrepancy is found in the credentials at any time, the letter of appointment
shall stand cancelled, and the employment terminated without notice and without any liability to the
Institute. At the time of employment, the concerned can didate must submit photocopies of all
certificates and testimonials along with the originals, which will be returned after verification.
• Acceptance of employment by a candidate means and includes acceptance of these Rules and Orders
issued from time to time to supplement or modify these, Rules.
• Employees will be governed by IIM Raipur Conduct Rules / CCS Conduct Rules 1964 & CCS (CCA)
Rules, 1965.

ii) Verification process at the time of Joining:

The verification process is compulsory for all joining different faculty positions (Regular / Contract position
on a regular scale / Contract position on a consolidated scale). The process includes verification of required
documents mentioned in Annexure XV.

5.7 Faculty Confirmation:

52

i) Biannual Faculty Self-Performance Appraisal and Biannual Work Plan for one year will be evaluated by
the FRC. Faculty members, who are on probation for one year and are due for confirmation, are required
to fill up the biannual Faculty Self-Performance Appraisal Form as given in Table 1, Chapter 7.
The faculty Biannual Performance Appraisal system should be Qualitative and more Descriptive with
range-based marking/ratings. The performance reviews be under the Director's delegated powers, as in
practice in other IIMs.
The Director will review the performance of the faculty members, who are due for confirmation, based on
their Biannual Work Plan, Biannual Faculty Self-Performance Appraisal Form for the last one year and any
other relevant documents concerning the faculty. The evaluation of the performance shall be based on the
five parameters as given in the appraisal form.

ii) The Director will recommend confirming their services, extending their probation, or dispensing with their
services.

iii) The recommendation of the Director will be placed before the Chairperson, BoG, IIM Raipur, for approval.
Appropriate action will be taken after the approval of the Chairperson.

iv) This recommendation will be put to the Board for information and ratification.

5.8 Regularization of Faculty Members

From Assistant Professor (Contract) to Assistant Professor Regular Scale Position

The Assistant Professors recruited through the BoG approved Seminar-cum-Selection Committee process, but
were given a contractual offer, can be given a regular status through their performance review based on the
following minimum criteria:

Specific Criteria for Regularization:
• Minimum required period of one year at the current position.
• Minimum 120 credits per year taught during the review period in long duration programmes. Teaching
multiple sections will be treated as teaching multiple courses.
• Degree level course feedback ranges above 50% in at least two courses in trailing one-year or similar.
• Minimum one A Category publication in the trailing year.

Faculty members will be reviewed and evaluated by FRC. The contract of those faculty members who do not
meet the desired requirements may be extended further depending upon the requirement in the respective
academic area.

Important

Any proven case of compromise on personal or professional integrity will be viewed severely, and no increments
or promotions will be given irrespective of performance in other criteria.

5.9 Policy for Professor (Level 14A) to Professor (Level 15) Upgrade

Eligibility:

• Six years as a professor.

53

• Minimum 120 credits per year taught during the review period in degree-granting programmes.
• Degree level course feedback ranging above 50% in at least two courses in trailing one-year or similar.
• Should have performed very good in annual performance appraisal in preceding six years on an average.
• A minimum contribution of four A level papers in the preceding six years.

5.10 Superannuation Age:

After confirmation, the appointee shall continue holding their office until they attain normal retirement age. IIM
Raipur follows the superannuation rules and practices as are prevalent in IIMs applicable for Academic Positions
and implements the same after seeking the approval of the Board.

5.11 Resignation by Faculty:

Except otherwise agreed by the Institute, faculty members are required to complete the teaching schedules, projects
or any other assignments before leaving the Institute. In case the time taken to complete the assignments takes a
longer period than the stipulated period of notice, such period of notice will stand extended by the time it will take
to complete the assignment. A faculty member may resign from his/her post after giving three months’ notice for
regular and one month for faculty on probation or contract.

54

6. Non-Faculty Recruitment Policy

6.1 Non-faculty Recruitment

Non-faculty members may be appointed on a regular position or a contract basis. The qualification,
experience etc., shall be governed by the ‘Ministry of Education (formerly known as Ministry of Human
Resource Development) rules.

6.1.1 Classification of Non-faculty:

Group / Class / Level
(Pay Band)
Posts
Group ‘A’
Level 10 & above
( PB-3 & above as per
6th CPC )
Chief Administrative Officer, Librarian, Financial Advisor & Chief
Accounts Officer, Senior Administrative Officer, Administrative Officer,
Resident Engineer, Systems Administrator, System Manager

Group ‘B’
Level 6 to 9 ( PB-2 as per
6th CPC )
Deputy Administrative Officer, Civil Engineer, Assistant Engineer,
Assistant Librarian, Assistant administrative Officer, Store & Purchase
Officer (Sr. Grade), Assistant System Manager, Accountant, Junior
Engineer, Junior Engineer (Sr. Grade), Personal Assistant, Assistant
Librarian, Office Assistant, Computer Lab/IT Assistant, Assistant Store
and Purchase Officer

Group ‘C’
Level 5 & below
(PB-1 as per 6th CPC)
Junior Assistant, Jr. Library Assistant, Hostel Supervisor. Compounder
Nurse (Resident Staff Nurse), Driver, Peons etc.

6.1.2 The designation, Scale of Pay and Qualification

As approved by the BoG in its 41 st and 47th BoG Meeting held on 27 Aug 2020 and 14 Feb 2021 ,
respectively, the Board Sanctioned 44 non-faculty posts of various levels as follows:

S.N. Name of Post Total
1 Group A (Level -12) 2
2 Group A (Level -11) 3
3 Group A (Level -10) 7
4 Group B (Level -08) 12
5 Group B (Level -06) 10
6 Group C (Level -04) 8
7 Group C (Level -02) 1
8 Group C (Level -01) 1
Total 44

55

Designations and pay scales for various regular positions as per the current sanction in the institute are as
follows:

Sl. No. Designation Level As per the 7th CPC
1. Chief Administrative Officer* Level 13 A2
2. Librarian Level 12
3. FA & CAO Level 12
4. Systems Manager Level 11
5. Sr. Administrative Officer (2) Level 11
6. Administrative Officer (6) Level 10
7. Finance and Account Officer Level 10
8. Store & Purchase Officer (Sr. Grade) Level 08
9. Assistant Administrative Officer (8) Level 08
10. Assistant System Manager Level 08
11. Assistant Librarian Level 08
12. Junior Engineer (Sr. Grade) Level 08
13. Secretary to Director Level 06
14. Sr. Library Information Assistant Level 06
15. Accountant Level 06
16. Junior Engineer Level 06
17. Personal Assistant Level 06
18. Office Assistant (4) Level 06
19. Computer Lab /IT Assistant Level 06
20. Junior Assistant (3) Level 04
21. Junior Library Assistant Level 04
22. Hostel Supervisor (01 Male & 01 Female) Level 04
23. Compounder Nurse (Resident Staff Nurse) (2) Level 04
24. Driver Level 02
25. Attendant - Peon Level 01

*CAO is appointed on contract, and consolidated salary is fixed at a respective level approved by the Board
in its 07th Meeting held on 14 July 2012

The above positions are listed out based on the 41st and 47th BoG Meetings held on 27th Aug 2020 and 14th
Feb 2021, respectively. However, any changes by MoE in the pay scales of the above positions will be
deemed to come into effect automatically after receiving official communications from MoE in this regard.

a) Officer Category (Group ‘A’ Level 10 & above)

i) Chief Administrative Officer
Post-graduate Master’s Degree in any discipline with 55% marks or equivalent grade from a
recognized University / Institute with a minimum of 15 years of administrative experience of working
as a head of administration department of a Government of India / PSU / autonomous establishment
/ higher education academic institute. An additional qualification in law or management is desirable.
The upper age limit is 55 years.

56

Director is authorized to select a defense officer in t he rank of Colonel / Brigadier as Chief
Administrative Officer (CAO) on a contract for three years extendable for another two years on the
PB4 scale with a GP of Rs. 9500 (i.e. Level 13 A2 as per 7th CPC). Preference will be given to those
candidates who have experience in higher education or have done a six-month course at IIMs or
MDI”. (Ref. - Minutes of 7th BoG Meeting dt. 14.04.2012)

ii) Librarian
Ph.D. with first class or equivalent at the preceding master’s degree in Library Science.
Should have a very good academic record throughout and a minimum of 10 years’ experience in the
relevant field. Upper Age Limit: 45 years.

iii) FA&CAO
Master’s degree or equivalent/ degree in CA / ICWA with consistently good academic record with a
minimum of 10 years’ relevant experience. Upper Age Limit: 45 years.

iv) Systems Manager:
MCA/B. Tech. in Computer Science with first class or equivalent from a reputed institute. Should
have a consistently good academic record throughout and a minimum of 10 years’ relevant
experience. Upper Age Limit: 45 years.

v) Finance and Accounts Officer:
Graduate with professional qualification of CA / CMA from the Institute of Chartered Accountants
of India or the Institute of Cost and Management Accounts of India. Minimum two years of post -
qualification in core accounting experience in Central / State PSU / Government / Semi-Government
Organization / Autonomous Body / Private entity. Age: Not Exceeding 30 years as on the last date
of the submission of the application. The minimum age limit is relaxable for five years for deserving
candidates. (Ref.- Minutes of 41st BOG meeting dt. 27.08.2020)

vi) Placement Officer:
Placement Officer on Contract with a consolidated salary between Rs. 65,000/- to Rs. 1,00,000/- p.m.
The period of the above-mentioned contractual employment should be initially for three years, which
may be extended subject to the performance and institutional requirements. (Ref.- Minutes of 42nd
BOG meeting dt. 21.12.2020)

vii) MDP Officer:
MDP Officer (Services) on Contract with a consolidated salary between Rs. 65,000/ - to Rs.
1,00,000/- p.m. The period of the above-mentioned contractual employment should be initially for
three years, which may be extended subject to the performance and institutional requirements. (Ref.-
Minutes of 42nd BOG meeting dt. 21.12.2020)

b) Non-Officer Category (Group ‘B’ Level 6 to 9)

i) Administrative Officer
Master’s degree preferably in Management with first class or equivalent from a reputed institute and
a minimum of 10 years of relevant experience. Upper Age Limit: 45 years.

ii) Junior Engineer
Three-year Diploma in Electrical / Mechanical / Civil Engineering from a recognized Institute or
University or Board; and Seven years’ experience in Planning, Execution and Maintenance of
Electrical / Mechanical / Civil Engineering works of autonomous /academic institutions / PSUs /
larger construction companies. (Ref.- Minutes of 41st BOG meeting dt. 27.08.2020)

57

iii) Office Assistant & equivalent:
Master’s Degree or equivalent in any discipline with 60% marks from reputed institutions and a
minimum of 5 years’ experience in the relevant field. Candidates with higher professional
qualifications shall be given preference. Upper Age Limit: 40 years.

iv) Store & Purchase Officer:
Master’s Degree or equivalent with a consistently good academic record and a degree /diploma in
Logistics / Materials Management with a minimum of 5 years relevant experience of working in a
government or PSU on a similar profile. Upper Age Limit: 40 years.

v) Store and purchase officer (Sr. Grade)
Post Graduate Degree, preferably in Management with 60 % mark or B.E / B.Tech./ B. Comm. with
Post Graduate Diploma in Material Management with 60 % marks or equivalent grade in both from a
recognized Institute / University and 7 years of work experience in Stores and Purchase with at least
5 years of work experience in Grade Pay of Rs.4200/ -. The detailed knowledge of tendering/ e -
tendering process, negotiation and store process as given in GFR 2017 and the procurement process
through GeM are essential. The candidate having experience in IIMs/ IITs / NITs/ Central Universities/
reputed institutes will be given preference. Upper Age Limit: 38 years.

vi) Assistant System Manager:
Master’s degree in Computer Science / IT / Computer Applications or equivalent with 60% marks or
equivalent grade from a recognized Institute / University and a Minimum of 7 years of experience in
the relevant field. Out of 7 years, 2 years’ experience should be in a Government / PSU / Autonomous
institution. The candidates should have the ability to work in an automated / ERP enabled
computerized environment.

vii) Personal Assistant:
Master’s Degree or equivalent in any discipline with 60% marks from reputed institutions and a
minimum of 5 years’ experience in the relevant field. Candidates with higher professional
qualifications shall be given preference. Upper Age Limit: 40 years.

viii) Senior Library & Information System:
Master’s Degree in Library Science with 60% or equivalent from a reputed institution and a minimum
of 5 years’ experience in the relevant field. Experience in working in an automated environment is
essential. Upper Age Limit: 40 years.

ix) Hostel & Mess Supervisor:
Bachelor’s Degree in any Discipline with a diploma in Hotel Management / Hospitalities with 5 years
of relevant experience of working in a similar capacity in an institutional set-up. Upper Age Limit:
40 years.

x) Junior Assistant / Accounts Assistant / Library Assistant / Teaching Assistant:
BBA/BCA/B.Com./ B.Lib. or equivalent with 60% marks from reputed institutions and a minimum
of 1-year experience in the relevant field. Expertise in Computers and the ability to work in an
automated environment are essential. Candidates with higher professional qualifications shall be
given preference. Upper Age Limit: 35 years.

c) Non-Officer Category (Group ‘C’ Level 5 and below)

58

i) Driver: 10+2 with 10 years of relevant experience. Upper age limit: 45 years.

ii) Messenger-cum-Junior Attendant/ Dispatch Rider/ Helper, etc.: 10+2 with a minimum 2 years’
experience in the relevant field. Upper Age Limit: 30 years.

d) Resident Medical Officer on Contract

One Resident Medical Officer on contract having the following eligibility criteria and emoluments may be
appointed:

• Essential Qualification: The candidate should have a n MBBS degree and have a valid registration
certificate from the Medical Council of India / any of the state Medical Council after completing a oneyear compulsory internship.

• Experience: Minimum 2 years of post-internship clinical experience in recognised Hospitals / Health
centres.

• Emoluments:

(i) Consolidate Emoluments - Rs.60,000 – 70,000/- per month (as per experience)
(ii) Non-Practicing Allowance (NPA) - Rs. 5,000/- per month
(iii) Unfurnished accommodation on campus

• Tenure: Minimum two-year contract can be extended depending on requirement and performance.

(Ref. Minutes of 29th BoG Meeting dt. 10.04.2018)

e) Compounder Nurse/ Resident Staff Nurse (One Male & One Female)

Two Staff Nurse (one male and one female) on contract having the following eligibility criteria and
emoluments may be appointed:

• Essential Qualification: Bachelor’s Degree in Nursing (BSc Nursing) or Diploma in Nursing with at
least 55% of marks (or equivalent grade on a point scale wherever grading system is followed) with a
consistently good academic record.

• Experience: Minimum 2 years of work experience in recognised Hospitals / Health Centre / Clinic

• Desirable Qualifications / Experience:
o Experience in OPD
o Knowledge of MS office/Documents/Internet etc.

• Emoluments:
(i) Consolidate Emoluments - Rs. 22,000 – 26,000/- per month (as per experience)
(ii) Unfurnished accommodation on campus

• Tenure: Minimum two years, can be extended depending on the requirement and satisfactory
performance of the selected candidate.
Note: However, for the regular position pay scale will be Level-4.

(Ref. Minutes of 29th BoG Meeting dt. 10.04.2018)

59

f) Academic/ Research Support Staff

From time to time, faculty members require support services in Research and allied activities. The
guidelines for recruitment of such personnel are described below.

(a) Levels of Academic/Research Support Staff

SN Designation Qualification Consolidated
Salary*
1. Field Investigator/ Data
Entry Operator
Graduate INR. 10,000/- to Rs.
15,000/- per month
2. Research/ Teaching/
Project Assistant
Postgraduate/ B. Tech/L.L.B. INR. 25,000/-
30,000/- per month
3. Research/ Teaching/
Project Associate
Postgraduate with a minimum
of three years of research/
teaching/ project experience
INR. 30,000/- to
35,000/- per month
4.

Sr. Research/ Teaching/
Project Associate
Postgraduate with minimum
five years research/ teaching/
project experience
INR 35,000/- to
50,000/- per month
PhD/FPM with a minimum of
one-year research/ teaching/
project experience

INR 50,000/- to
60,000/- per month

*No other allowances or benefits are admissible.

The cut-off date for determining the age to be kept as the closing date of receipt of an application, for which the
advertisement for the position is published in the Newspapers / Institute website. If a candidate meets all the
requirements for a specific position and meets all the requirements for a specific position, the Director may relax
the age requirement for the same.

(b) Procedure for Recruitment

(i) For academic/research personnel recruitment , an advertisement shall be prepared based on the
requirements for an appropriate level as mentioned above.
(ii) The process of receiving and short -listing applications will be done by the Principal Investigator
of the Research/ Consulting Project/ Area Chair or equivalent. The advertisement shall be put up
on the notice boards at IIM Raipur & other prominent institutions in Raipur. It shall also be placed
on the IIM Raipur website.
(iii) A two-member faculty committee shall be constituted with the Principal Investigator of the Project
for holding the interviews.
(iv) With specific recommendations, the minutes of the selection committee shall be signed by all the
committee members. The selection committee minutes along with a list and bio -data of all

60

candidates who appeared for the interview and a copy of the advertisement shall be forwarded to
the Director for his approval.
(v) The administration department would issue the appointment letter(s) based on the approval.

(c) Terms of Appointment

The appointment of Academic/Research/ Project support personnel shall be purely contractual and
associated with the specific project with durations not to exceed one year. They shall be subject to the
rules and regulations governing such appointments. On the completion of the contract. The appointment
may be renewed or extended by the Director at the request of the Principle Investigator of the Project.

6.2 Appointing Authority:

All permanent appointments to the Non-Faculty positions (PB-3) shall be made on the recommendation of
the Selection Committee and approval from the BoG/Director, IIM Raipur depending upon the levels.
Appointment of the Non-Faculty Selection Committee will comprise the following:

The following will be appointing authority for various categories of employees.

Sl. No. Pay Scale of Posts Appointing Authority
1. Administrative Staff in Group ‘A’
i.e. Level 10 & Above
Director
2. Administrative Staff in Group ‘B’ and ‘C’
i.e. Level 9 and below
Chief Administrative Officer*

* If the position of CAO is not filled, this authority will be delegated to a suitable person in the Institute by
the Director. This matter will be placed before the BoG for ratification.

The appointment of Non -faculty positions will be carried out by the following Selection Committee for
various categories of employees.

i) Officers Category (Group ‘A’ Level 10 & Above )
• Director, IIM Raipur – Chairperson of Non-Faculty Selection Committee
• 1 Member of BoG
• 1 external Expert in the field
• 1 Dean to be nominated by the Director
• 1 women member
• 1 representative of the SC / ST category

ii) Non-Officers category (Group ‘B’ Level 6 & 9 )
• 1 Dean nominated by Director as Chairperson of Selection Committee
• Chief Administrative Officer
• 1 External Expert in the field
• One faculty member of the level of minimum Assistant Professor
• 1 women member
• 1 representative of the SC / ST category

iii) Non-Officers category (Group ‘C’ Level 5 & below)

• 1 Dean nominated by Director - serve as Chairperson of Selection Committee

61

• Chief Administrative Officer
• 1 External Expert in the field, if required
• One faculty member of the level of minimum Assistant Professor
• 1 women member
• 1 representative of the SC / ST category

If Dean is not available, a Senior Professor will be appointed by the Director and will act as Chairperson
of the Selection Committee.

The requirement of the selection and recruitment by interview has been discontinued for the Group B (NonGazetted) & below (below Level 9 as per the 7th CPC) by the Government of India since 01 January 2016
vide OM No: 39020/01/2013-Estt (B) dated 09th Oct 2015. Accordingly, the selections by interviews have
been dispensed with for all Group C, Group D , and non-gazetted posts of Group B categories. Thus, the
selections of such posts are to be limited only to written tests and skill tests, where applicable. (Ref.
Minutes of 36th BoG Meeting dt. 15.10.2019)

As required, the director is authorised to constitute such a committee for the selection and recruitment of
the non-faculty (Group B and below). (Ref. – Minutes of 36th Meeting BoG dated 15.10.2019)

The Director would make all contract appointments to the non -faculty positions, including academic
associates/research associates, as per requirement.

6.3 Recruitment Process

i) Advertisement in national newspaper/ IIM Raipur web-site/ other websites (national/
international)/nominations.
ii) Applications collected in the prescribed format (Annexure VIII) from different sources will be sorted
out post-wise.
iii) Summary of applications , application form and screening form (Annexure IX) will be sent to
Application Screening committee duly constituted by Director.
iv) Screening Committee will send the comments along with a list of short-listed candidates to be called
for interview to Director within seven days.
v) Director will review the recommendations of the Screening Committee and the list of short -listed
candidates for written test / personal interview.
vi) Director Office (for Group A) and CAO (for Group B & C ) will send invitation letters/e-mails to
all short-listed candidates.
vii) Invited candidates will appear for a personal interview / written test before the Selection Committee.
viii) The Selection Committee will conduct personal Interviews. The Selection Committee will record their
findingsin a prescribed format (Annexure X).
ix) The CAO will prepare minutes based on the qualification, experience, and performance in the
interview of the candidates. All members of the Selection Committee will sign the minutes on the same
day.
x) Recommendations of the Non-Faculty Selection Committee (pertaining to the category of Group
‘A’, i.e., Level 10 and above) will be placed before the Chairperson, Board of Governors for his
approval. Appointment letters will be issued in duplicate by the Director to the selected candidates.
Selected candidates will sign and return the duplicate copy intimating their acceptance of the offer of
appointment and the date of joining.

62

xi) Recommendations of the Non-Faculty Selection Committee (Group ‘B’& ‘C’, i.e. level 9 and below)
will be placed before the Director for his approval.
xii) An a ppointment letter will be issued only after obtaining the recommendation letter from the two
referees (Annexure XI).
xiii) Appointment letters will be issued in duplicate by the CAO based on the recommendation of the
Selection Committee. Selected candidates will sign and return the duplicate copy intimating their
acceptance of the offer of appointment and the date of joining.

6.4 General

a. All appointments are subject to a medical fitness report issued by a government medical officer to be
produced by the candidates at the time of joining.
b. Appointment to permanent posts in the Institute shall be made on probation for a period of two years
from the date of joining the Institute . He/she will be confirmed based on satisfactory performance
during the probation period; however, if the performance is unsatisfactory, his/her services will be
terminated.
c. All appointment letters are subject to the candidate’s antecedents and credentials being genuine and
satisfactory. If any discrepancy is found in the credentials at any time, the letter of appointment shall
stand cancelled, and the employment will be terminated without notice and without any liability to the
Institute. At the time of employment, the concerned candidate must submit photocopies of all
certificates and testimonials along with the originals, which will be returned after verification.
d. Acceptance of employment by a candidate means and includes acceptance of these Rules and Orders
issued from time to time to supplement or modify these Rules.
e. Employees will be governed by provisions of IIM Raipur Conduct Rules / CCS Conduct Rules 1964
& CCS (CCA) Rules 1965.

6.4.1 Verification process at the time of Joining:

The verification process is compulsory for all joining different non-faculty positions (Regular / Contract
positions on a consolidated scale). The process includes verification of required documents mentioned in
Annexure XV.

6.5 Probation

a. When an employee is appointed to Group ‘A’ Post (i.e ., Level 10 and above) by selection in a
permanent vacancy, he shall be deemed to be `holding’ that post in an officiating capacity until he is
confirmed in that post and shall not, unless otherwise specifically provided deemed to be on probation.
b. An employee in Group ‘B’ & ‘C’ (i.e. Level 9 and below) directly recruited to the Institute’s service
on a regular basis shall be required to be on probation for a period of two years as may be fixed by the
appointing authority at the time of his appointment:
c. Employees other than Group ‘A’ & ‘B’, who are directly recruited against permanent vacancies, shall
be on probation for a period of one year.

6.6 Confirmation:

63

a. Non-Faculty members on probation for two years and are due for confirmation are required to fill up
the Annual Staff Performance Appraisal Form (Annexure XII). A Performance Appraisal Committee
will evaluate annual Staff Performance Appraisal for two years as per the procedure given in the
succeeding paragraphs.

b. The performance of Group ‘A’ and ‘B ’ Officers will be evaluated by a Committee for a
recommendation for Confirmation, Extension of probation, or termination based on the contribution
made by the staff during the probation period and as reported in the Performance Appraisal Report for
the said period. The Committee will consist of:

• Director
• One Dean to be nominated by the Director
• One external expert
• CAO

c. The confirmation cases of other employees (Group ‘C’) shall be dealt with by a Committee constituted
by the Director.

6.7 Superannuation Age

The s uperannuation age for Non -Academic positions is 60 years. The s uperannuation age for CAO,
Librarian is 62 years. Beyond the retirement age of 60 years, officer/staff may be re-appointed on a contract
basis not exceeding two years on a need basis after review and specific approval of the Director/BoG.

6.8 Resignation of Permanent Non-Faculty

A permanent member of non -teaching staff may resign from his post after giving three months’ notice,
which may be waived or reduced by the Director on the merits of the case.

64

7. Faculty Teaching Hours, Annual Work Plan & Performance Appraisal

7.1 Mandatory requirements and Expectations from faculty members

IIM Raipur has the following expectations from the faculty:

• A Minimum teaching of 120 points (implies 120 hours of teaching).
• A Minimum 30 research points.
• The maximum external teaching assignment is 40 hours.
• Each faculty is required to earn a minimum of 180 points per year. There are no institutional
incentives/payments below the minimum 180 points, including Professional Development Fund
(PDF)/Faculty Development Fund (FDF)/Conference funds.
• Admissions duty for PGP/EPGP/FPM/EPGP is mandatory.
• It is mandatory for faculty to accept and honour institute duty, whether teaching or administration,
when called upon by the Institute.
• All the publications under other refereed journals will be reviewed by Faculty Review -andRecruitment Committee (FRC). The review ensures that publications in predatory journals are
discouraged and hence not rewarded. In case of any rejection by the FRC, the faculty member will be
informed about the associated reasons.
• The payments for any external teaching/assignments need to be in favour of IIM Raipur. The
payments need to be shared with the Institute as per the Consulting revenue sharing rule. There can
be minor exemptions if the honorarium amount is small (or one can do it pro-bono).

7.2 PDF Encashment:

Faculty are allowed to claim PDF from accumulated points above 180 points per year. PDF encashment is
permitted at the rate of Rs. 6,500 per point beyond 180 points.
The faculty members are encouraged to make use of the PDF to participate in their development including
IT hardware purchases, conferences, seminars, workshops and training programmes.
The maximum PDF disbursement as cash is restricted to Rs. 40 lakhs in an academic year. PDF beyond 40
lakhs and up to 60 lakhs will be accumulated into respective faculty member’s account which can be used
for professional development activities like participating in conferences, seminars, training programs,
visiting academic institutions located in the country and abroad for research purpose.
Amount available in PDF after encashment can be carried forward for a maximum period of two years after
which it will lapse automatically. Indirectly, it implies that points earned from research are allowed to be
carried forward to the subsequent years.

7.3 Faculty Annual Work Plan

At the beginning of each financial year, every faculty member would be required to prepare an Annual
Work Plan in a prescribed format (Annexure-VII) and send copies to Director and Area Chair / Coordinator.
All the faculty members in the Area will discuss their work plan in the meeting called by the Area Chair /
Coordinator. The Area will ensure an even workload of teaching, research, training , and academic
administration to each area faculty member . In addition, the Area Coordinator should also ensure the

65

compliance of total research projects and publications and , at the same time , the number of Conferences
they would like to do for that financial year.

The work plan needs to be resubmitted, keeping in mind the norms of the new policy. A faculty member is
not expected to teach more than seven credits in an academic year, and in any given term, the maximum
teaching hours should not be more than 90 hours in degree courses.
The Director will finalize the Area work plan in consultation with the Area Coordinator and the Area faculty
members.

The Director will review the Annual Work Plan of individual faculty and the area's performance twice a
year, i.e., one in the last week of September and the second one in the last week of March every year. The
work plan and the report on achievements will form an important part of the appraisal. At the end of each
Academic Year, faculty members will prepare a report of how successful they have achieved their planned
work for the year.

All faculty members are expected to fulfil the minimum requirement of 180 points during the Academic
Year. The faculty members who hold any positions of responsibility (PoR) will not get any waiver in the
minimum teaching and/or research requirements. In the new policy, compensation for faculty members
holding PoR is already provisioned for.

7.4 Faculty Annual Self-Performance Appraisal:

Those faculty members who have completed six months or more must fill-up the Self-Performance Appraisal Form
(as per Table 1 ). Those faculty members who are on probation and are due for confirmation will also require
submitting Faculty Self-Performance Appraisal.

Table 1: Periodic Self-Appraisal Form (Bi-annual)
Performance Area Previous
Period (say,
six months)
SelfRating
Next Period
(say, six
months)
1 Research (through Publication, Conference and Projects)
2 Teaching (PGP, EPGP, and Doctoral Programmes)
3 Training and Consulting (MDP, EMDP, and Consulting
Assignments)

4 Institution Building (Administration, participation in institute
academic activities and otherwise)

5 Citizenship (through active participation, talks, lectures,
workshops, community service, professional association, and
building social capital. This will include the attendance and
active involvement and participation in various events
organized by the Institute from time to time.)

Note: A faculty is expected to fill the above self -appraisal form up (before the start of the six months) and review
the submission in the subsequent six months. This self-appraisal is on a self-rating scale of 1 to 5.

i. The Director will review the performance of all the faculty for each academic year.

66

ii. The Director will review the performance of the faculty members, who are due for confirmation,
based on their Annual Work Plan, Faculty Self -Performance Appraisal Form for the relevant years
and any other relevant documents concerning the faculty. The Director will evaluate the performance
on five parameters as described in Table 2 below:

7.5 Promotions

i) Faculty members meeting the minimum eligibility criteria for each position can apply for promotion.

ii) Applications must be made to the Director through Dean with an up -to-date resume, a covering letter
outlining the Institute's major contributions, and an activity report listing the achievements and outcomes
of teaching, research, consulting, and institutional administration.

iii) All applications will be processed by the Dean’s office and submitted to the Director.

iv) The decision to consider the candidate for promotion will be based on a performance appraisal by the
Director and, if required, Director may constitute a committee to evaluate the applications. Academic and
institutional contributions will be considered fo r promotion, including research output, evidence of
effective teaching in regular and executive programmes, training and consulting, active participation in
institutional activities and contributions to the community and respective scholastic fields.

v) Institute will not consider any faculty for fast -track promotion, and there shall be no relaxations in the
minimum eligibility requirements as mandated by the Government.

vi) Promotion to a higher position will be based on an interview by a Selection Committee. The Director
will chair such a committee and include the Dean/a Professor and an External expert.

vii) The selection committee, if felt necessary, may grant promotion involving a probation for one year

7.6 Performance Review

i) Every faculty member is mandated to meet the minimum workload requirements as decided from time
to time.

ii) The Area chairs need to ensure that the new joining faculty with near zero teaching experience in premier
b-schools are given a settling period of six months. During the six months, a new joinee needs to sit
through four area level courses (by internal fac ulty) and at least two non -area level courses (by faculty
with solid written feedback and/or verbal feedback by our alumni). Based on relevance and the teaching
pedagogy/ feedback, the new joiners may choose the desired courses to sit through. There is no need to
plan for any settling period for candidates with rich teaching and/or relevant prior experience.

iii) Faculty will not be eligible for any incentives for teaching, research, and other contributions/ involvement
if they do not meet the mandated minimum workload.

iv) Faculty members are required to submit biannual self-appraisal. The self-appraisal will be an important
input for confirmation and promotion.

67

v) Performance Assessment: at the end of each academic year, performance of a faulty will be evaluated
according to the criteria given below in the Table 2.

Table 2: Performance Assessment

Area of work Criteria 1 2 3 4 5
Teaching (PGP, EPGP,
and Doctoral
Programmes)
(Weightage 40%)
Average
feedback in
PGP, EPGP,
and FPM (out of
5)
Less
than 3
3 – 3.5 3.5 – 4 4 – 4.5 4.5 and
above
Research (through
Publication, Conference
and Projects) (Weightage
40%)
Points earned Upto
10
11 - 20 21 - 30 30 -40 Above 40
Contribution to
Institution Building –
based on points earned
from administrative
activities
(Weightage 5%)
Points earned Upto
10
11-20 21-30 31-40 Above 40
Training MDPs, InCompany, and e-learning
courses excluding e-PGP
(Weightage 5%)
Number of
sessions
Upto
10
11-20 21-30 31-40 Above 40
Citizenship,
contribution through
service, social capital
and showcasing
professional integrity.
This will include the
attendance and active
involvement and
participation in various
events organized by the
Institute from time to
time. (Weightage 10%)
To be decided
by the FRC

Out of a maximum possible score of 100, the rating will be assigned as follows:
Less than 50 – Poor
50-60 – Average
60-70 – Good
70-80 Very Good
80 and above - Excellent

68

Expected level of performance is “Very Good”. Based on the evaluation of faculty members, the Director will
recommend to the Chairperson, BoG/Board to confirm their services, extend their probation, or dispense with their
services.

This evaluation will be put to the Board for information and ratification.

Those who do not meet the minimum workload will not be eligible for PDF/FDF/Conference Fund (see, Table
3).
Table 3 : Faculty Workload Norms

I TEACHING
PGP, PGPMWE, EPGP & FPM One Point per hour of instruction.

FDP / MDP / EMDP / E-Learning One Point per hour of instruction.
For coordinators and programme directors, the distribution of
points will be as per the methods set by ELDC committee:

The Program Director’s share shall be distributed equally
among the Program Director’s (PD) where the number of
PD is more than one.
For example, if Program X is of 300 hours and there are two
PD’s. Then the point received by each Program Director(s):
Total no. of points for Program of 300 hours = 50 points (6
hours = 1 point)
Program Director one = Receive 25 points
Program Director two = Receive 25 points
PGP Project Course & Course of Independent
Study in FPM
Point equal to course credit equivalent hours.
Other Programs • 15 points for Other Programs Coordinator
• In the case of multiple coordinators, each coordinator will
get 2 X points/ (n+1); n is the number of coordinators.
One point per group for faculty coordination which can be
claimed once.
PGP & EPGP Workshop • One point per hour of instruction
• There are no separate credit points for designing such a
workshop module
Business Plan Proposal - PGP/ EPGP/ IPM/ and
Similar
• 15 points for Coordinator
• One point per group for faculty coordination which can
be claimed once.
• In the case of multiple coordinators, each coordinator
will get 2 X point points/(n+1); n is the number of
coordinators.

II RESEARCH, PUBLICATION & CONFERENCE
Refereed Journal Publications FT 50 Journals : 250 points
A Star journals : 180 points

69

A Journals : 110 points
Category B Journals : 50 points
• Higher of the ranks as per current listing by ABDC and ABS.
• We imply the following mapping/equivalence: ABS 4 & above
Level is ABDC A* Level; ABS 3 Level is ABDC A Level; ABS 2
Level is ABDC B Level).
• Thus, in cases where there is a difference, a higher of the rank as
per the current listing by ABDC and ABS will be considered.
• Other refereed journals: 15 points
• This classification implies that there will be no category C or
similar. Further, the FRC can use its discretion in such rare cases.
• For multiple authors, the points allowed could be 2 X points/(n+1),
where n is the number of authors.
Conference Papers • Papers presented in Peer-reviewed conference organized by wellknown societies & organizations – 10 credit points.
• Papers presented at peer-reviewed conferences organized by wellknown societies & organizations, including peer-reviewed
proceedings – 20 credit points.
• The extended abstract of the conference paper is to be submitted to
the institute while taking approval for presentation at the
conference.
• If a single paper is being presented in multiple conferences, the FRC
can use discretion to give points to only one instance. Similarly , if
multiple papers are being presented in the same conference (internal
or external), FRC can decide the points to be given in such case.
• Points earned by way of peer reviewed conferences shall be
limited to a maximum of two conferences in a year.
Working paper available either on IIM
Raipur website or any other online
platform.
Working Paper: 5 credit points
Working Paper are early sharing of research findings for peer
feedback and similar. Thus, these points are over and above the
paper that will be published (at a later point in time).
Case studies registered with IIM Raipur
Depository, IVEY, peer-reviewed case
studies, and blind -reviewed depository
cases.
IIM Raipur – 40 credit points.

Case studies with teaching notes registered with a well-known
publishing house, such as Harvard, Ivey, Sage, Darden, Emerald, etc.:
30 credit points.

Others – 20 credit points. Further, FRC can use its discretion in such
rare cases.
Articles in Magazines, Newspapers,
Non- refereed Journals, Commentary /
Opinion pieces etc.
Printed: 5 credit points
Online: 2 credit points
Editorial services in Journals Managing Editor/Editor-in-Chief/Editor/Associate Editor
Category A*: 60 credit points
Category A: 30 credit points
Category B: 15 credit points
Further, FRC can use its discretion in cases such as ‘Special Issue
Editor’ or being a regular reviewer for a Category A and above journal.
Book Publication Book by a reputed publisher - 80 credit points. Edited Book – 30 credit
points.

70

For multiple authors, the points allowed are 2 x points/ (n+1), where n
is the number of authors.
Chapter in an edited book/volume Book Chapter 15 credit points.

Conducting Conference Conducting Conference where IIM Raipur is an organizer or coorganizer: 30 credit points.
For multiple Coordinators, the points allowed are 2 X points/(n+1),
where n is the number of authors.
Conducting Workshops / Symposiums
in Campus
Workshops / Symposiums: 10 Credit points
Research Centre /Lab Establishment 30 credit points
Editing and Publication of Conference
Proceedings by a reputed publisher
30 Credit points
For multiple Editors, the points allowed are 2 X credit points/ (n+1),
where n is the number of authors.

III. ACTIVITY HEADS/ MEMBERSHIP IN COMMITTEES/ ACTIVITIES RELATED TO
IIM Raipur PGP/FPM/EPGP ADMISSIONS
Activity Heads
Deans :100 points
PGP : 75 points
EPGP : 40 points
MDP & FDP : 40 points
Placements : 40 points
Admissions : 40 points
FPM & EFPM : 40 points
Research : 40 points
Incubation : 40 points
Accreditation & Ranking : 40 points
Students Affairs : 40 points
International Relations : 40 points
Alumni : 40 points
IT Services : 40 points
Students Hostel Warden : 30 points
Area Chair : 20 points
Other Task/Committee Chairs : Discretionary

Note: Points on a pro-rata basis shall be given to the
activity heads where the change in the position during the
academic year is made by the institute.
Membership in Committees • Ad-hoc Committees: Discretionary
• Long duration Executive Committees
(Committees like PGP / EPGP / FPM / Placement /Admissions
etc.) : 5 Points
Activities related to PGP/FPM/EPGP
/EFPM Admissions
Two points per day for all admissions subject to a capping of
maximum 20 days.

71

IV. FPM/EFPM ACTIVITIES
Faculty Coordinator for the Area • 1st Year: 5 Points
• 2nd Year: 5 Points
RAC Member • 5 credit points per year for the 3rd and 4th years of the FPM
Programme.
• Beyond 4 years, no points will be awarded except for 10
Points in the year of convocation.
RAC Chairperson • 15 credit points per year for the 3rd & 4th years of the FPM
programme.
• Beyond 4 years, no points will be awarded except for 30
Points in the year of convocation.
TEC Chairperson / Member 2 Points per thesis (only if the member is not already
Chairperson/Member of RAC).

Note:
1.Faculty members can compensate for any shortfall in research with teaching points in the ratio of 1 research point
equal to 2 teaching points. Any shortfall in teaching can be compensated by research in the ratio of 1teaching point
equal to one research point.
However this will be only in terms enabling the cash incentive but will not count towards promotion.
2. The faculty may also ask to consider two-year average for workload points.
3.“Academic Administrative Appoint ment Holder”, must hold the appointment for a minimum period of nine
months and be assessed for their performance by quantifying their assessment for the individual faculty to accrue
financial benefits (through points).

4. Any claim of points involving potential conflict of interest will need to be clearly self-declared and clearly
documented in the submission (self-appraisal) itself.

7.7 Rewards and Incentives

7.7.1 Reward based on length of service

Each faculty and staff member will be felicitated on completion of continuous 5 years of service at the
Institute and then in multiples of 5 years. The felicitation will take place on the Foundation Day of the
Institute. It will include a certificate and gift (cash or vouchers also) of a value as follows:

Length of Service Amount
On completion of 5 years 5000
On completion of 10 years 10000
On completion of 15 years 15000
On completion of 20 years 20000
On completion of 25 years 50000
On completion of 30 years 55000
On completion of 35 years 65000

72

7.7.2 Award for Institution Building and Citizenship Behaviour

The faculty and staff who contribute to institution building and demonstrate citizenship behaviour shall be
rewarded. The following activities will fall under this category:

• Adopting a school – teaching students or giving financial support
• Working for an NGO
• Helping any colleague during emergency or crisis
• Coaching, training, guidance provided to the children of employees in housekeeping,
security, gardening etc
• Helping in upkeeping of the campus by maintaining a nice garden, plantation of trees etc.

Above activities are only illustrative in nature. The faculty/staff may include any other activity that
according to them qualifies under this category (the Director will have the right to include or exclude such
activities.

The award should be given to one faculty and one staff whose work is considered outstanding. The Director
in case of faculty and the CAO in case of the staff would be authorized to make a final decision.

A certificate and a cash award may be given. Cash incentive will be decided by the Director.

Rs 5 lacs have been sanctioned by the Board for this purpose.

7.7.3 Grant of Ex-Gratia Financial Assistance to Faculty in case of Death / Permanent Disability.

A grant of ex-gratia financial assistance of Rs. 5 lakh will be given to the next-of-kin of the faculty
within 15 days of death whether regular or contractual in addition to other assistance to be provided
as per prevailing Govt. norms.

73

8. Faculty’s Growth Avenues & Promotion

8.1 Growth Avenues for Faculty Members:

i. Appointment of Dean (Academics) and Dean (Planning & Research)
Any Professor may be appointed as Dean by the Director depending upon his administrative
leadership in the academic community and his commitment and interest after consulting the faculty
members.

ii. Appointment of Area Chairperson
After consulting the Area faculty members, any faculty member may be appointed as Area
Chairperson by the Director.

iii. Presenting Papers at National/International Conferences
Faculty members are encouraged to present their papers in National/International level refereed
conferences. The following guidelines are applicable for conferences:
• A f aculty member on a tenure track appointment may attend one international refereed
conference per year after completion of one year. In contrast, a faculty member on contract may
present a paper in one International Conference in two years after completion of one year.
• However, a faculty member will get an additional opportunity to present a paper in International
Referred Conference every time he publishes in ‘FT50/A*/ABS4 ’ Class Journals.

To attend any conference, a faculty member has to seek prior approval from the Director.

iv. Professional Membership
A faculty member can use Faculty Development Fund to become a member of three International
Professional Bodies / Associations.

v. Faculty Development Programmes
Faculty members on Tenure track positions are nominated to attend Faculty Development
Programmes abroad after completion of one year.

vi. Faculty Exchange Programmes
Faculty gets an opportunity to teach and do a joint research project with partner
institutions/universities under the faculty exchange programme.

vii. Research Support Scheme
IIM Raipur provides seed money to carry out research projects.

viii. Many other avenues are available. Details are given in Faculty Development Policy.

74

9. Non-Faculty Performance Appraisal, Growth Avenues & Promotion

9.1 Performance Appraisal:

At the beginning of each financial year, all employees under the Officers’ category or equivalent (Group
‘A’, i.e., Level 10 and above) would be required to fill in the Annual Performance Appraisal Report
(APAR), giving the details of the works during the year and the same would b e submitted for review and
approval at Director’s Level
(Ref. – Minutes of 08th HR Committee approved by BoG in its 42nd Meeting held on 21 December 2020)

APAR of other non-officers’ categories (Group ‘B’ & ‘C’, i.e., Level 9 and below) would be filled-in and
completed by their respective Reporting Officer/HoD for onward submission to the Director (Ref. –
Minutes of 03 rd HR Committee approved by BoG in its 16 th Meeting held on 01 October 2014). All
employees are normally expected to perform at the rate of 60% , and those evaluated under 60% shall be
considered below average and need to be counselled by the Director. The Annual Staff Performance
Appraisal Report format is attached (Annexure XII).

9.2 Growth Avenues for Non-Faculty

i) The employees of the non-teaching positions may be encouraged to attend national /international
programs / Training Programs / Computer Training Programs / Seminars relevant to IIM Raipur's
growth and development. The relevance of these programs/training to IIM Raipur would be judged by
the Director / Concerned Dean / CAO.

ii) Though IIM Raipur, within its own resources, shall help staff acquire new knowledge and skills, that
may not be sufficient, and those employees who are willing to take up higher education are encouraged
to do so, especially if the education so acquired is directly connected with IIM Raipur activities. The
employees of the non-teaching positions are also encouraged to develop to their fullest potential and
character, capacity, performance, and achievements. IIM Raipur will provide the following facilities:

a. Reimbursement of 50% of tuition fee
b. Flexibility hours of working in the Institute
c. Special Casual Leave during the days of examination
d. Those who qualify in the final examination be considered for an accelerated promotion scheme,
and pre-requisite experience be relaxed by one year.

iii) The non-teaching employees must be encouraged to attend short duration capsules conducted by the
Institute of Public Administration and similar Industries / PSUs , which impart training on
administrative matters.

iv) Each year one or two employees can be sponsored for any certificate course being run by the Institute
like GMP, Executive Certificate Programme in Business Finance, Executive Certificate Programme
in HRM etc. This sponsorship will also include any open MDP run by the Institute. Following rules
shall apply:
a. An applicant has to make a formal application at the beginning of the academic year.
b. The employee should fulfil the minimum entry requirement necessary for the programme.
c. The employee should have a minimum of 3 years work experience at IIM Raipur.

75

d. The employee has to obtain an approval from the Department Head and the CAO to ensure that
the normal working of the department is not affected.
e. No fee will be charged from the employee.
f. In a particular year, if there are more than 2 applicants, the decision to shortlist 2 candidates shall
be taken by the Dean, CAO, and a senior professor.
g. ‘On Duty Leave’ or ‘Special Casual Leave’ will be granted for the said duration.
h. If the employee leaves the organization within one year after completion of the Course /Program/
MDP, the amount of fee for the Course /Program/ MDP will be recovered from the employee.

9.3 Guidelines for DPC:

Guidelines for Promotion of Non -faculty staff by the Departmental Promotion Committee (Ref. –
Minutes of 33rd BoG Meeting held on 08 March 2019)

Criteria for the promotion of non-faculty staff members by the Departmental Promotion Committee
(DPC) are as follows: -

i) Departmental Promotion Committee (DPC) to be constituted by the Director from time to time to
assess the suitability of the employees for promotions based on their records and ACR / APARs
for the preceding five years.

ii) The Departmental Promotion Committee will consist of:

• One Dean / Senior Faculty nominated by the Director to serve as Chairperson of the
Committee.
• One faculty member nominated by Director.
• Chief Administrative Officer.
• Librarian.
• Financial Advisor and Chief Accounts Officer.

iii) Of the 5 years of ACR / APAR, the minimum benchmark/grading in ACR / APAR should be ‘Very
Good / Good’ as per the prevalent GoI policy up to the Grade Pay of Rs. 5400/- for all categories
of employees for the preceding 5 years.

iv) The criterion for promotion is Seniority-cum-Fitness. For non-technical employees working in the
administrative area/stream, the minimum educational qualification is Graduation for elevation to
non-executive level posts, i.e., Grade Pay between Rs. 1900/- & 4200/- (Group ‘B & C’ Category)
and minimum qualification is Post Graduation or equivalent for elevation to Executive Level posts,
i.e., GP Rs. 5400/- (up to Level 9).

v) Likewise, the employees who are in the technical cadre should possess a four -year B. Tech. or
equivalent degree for promotion to the Grade Pay from Rs. 4200/- to Rs. 5400/-.
vi) For a certain category of employees , such as Drivers, Stewards / Cooks, Electricians, Plumbers,
AC Operators, Machine Operators, Helpers, etc., their nature of the job is very different and thus
cannot match the qualification of other staff. On the other hand, they have High School Certificate
or ITI in line area qualifications. However, the above category of employees may be considered
for up-gradation/promotion without any insistence on Graduation norms up to the Grade Pay of

76

Rs. 4200/- only. Further, it is clarified that for such category of employees, a minimum one / twoyear ITI course (as per trade and course curriculum) inline trade followed by NCVT (National
Council for Vocational Training) approved certificate in relevant trade is essential.

vii) Promotion is earned by dint of hard work, good conduct and result oriented performance as
reflected in ACR / APARs. The assessment of each employee should be made on fair, just and
non-discriminatory conduct and report.

viii) Qualifying service for the promotion of non-faculty staff:

The qualifying service for promotion from one grade to another is necessary so that there is no
premature promotion or undue jump in pay and also to ensure that the officer has sufficient
opportunity to demonstrate his competence/potential for holding the higher po st. The period of
qualifying service varies from post to post depending upon the scale of pay and the experience
required for manning the higher post. The minimum qualifying service (residency period) for
promotions is stipulated below:

Any interim levels Grades not included above will be governed by the GoI guidelines in force for
the sanctioned posts.

ix) Wherever an employee has been found ‘Fit’ for promotion, his / her inter -seniority should be
retained.

x) The DPC should make its own assessment of the candidates without being merely guided by the
grading, if any, recorded in the ACRs / APARs, and take into account, in addition, the award of
penalty or administering of the displeasure of superior authority as reflected in the ACRs and
remarks, if any, against the column ‘integrity’. Where Reviewing Officer has overruled the
Sl.
No.
Level / Grade Pay (Rs.) Minimum
Qualifying
service
(residency
period)
Remarks
From To
1. Level – 1
(GP 1800)
Level – 2
(GP 1900)
3 years These qualifying services
(residency period) criteria
may be amended from time
to time as per the guidelines
of Govt. of India.
2. Level – 2
(GP 1900)
Level – 4
(GP 2400)
8 years
3. Level – 4
(GP 2400)
Level – 5
(GP 2800)
5 years
4. Level – 4
(GP 2400)
Level – 6
(GP 4200)
10 years
5. Level – 5
(GP 2800)
Level – 6
(GP 4200)
6 years
6. Level – 6
(GP 4200)
Level – 8
(GP 4800)
6 years
7. Level – 6
(GP 4200)
Level – 9
(GP 5400)
8 years
8. Level – 8
(GP 4800)
Level – 9
(GP 5400)
2 years

77

remarks of the Reporting Officer, the latter remarks will prevail, provided the overruling is justified
with reference to the contents of the Report.

xi) No conditional promotion will be accorded.

The above rules are for the promotion of non-faculty staff up to Group B. Group A positions will be filled by
direct recruitment, wherein internal candidates eligible for the position may also apply.

9.4 Modified Assured Career Progression Scheme (MACPS)

(Ref. – Minutes of 44th BoG Meeting held on 04 May 2021)

Ministry of Education vide letter no. 4-7/2016-TS.V dated 01st March 2021 directed the Institute to move
a proposal to adopt the MACP Scheme, which may get approved by the Board of Governors of the Institute
and submit the same to Dept. of Higher Education, Ministry of Education.

Under the MACP Scheme, three financial upgrades are allowed to an employee on completion of 10,
20, or 30 years of regular service, counted from the direct entry grade. MACPS envisages merely
placement in the next higher-grade pay/level if the employee has earned no promotion during the
period due to a lack of opportunities.

With the Board’s approval, Institute adopted the ‘Modified Assured Career Progression Scheme (MACPS)’
as Autonomous Body.

78

10. Faculty Development Policy

Executive Summary

IIM Raipur encourages and facilitates its faculty members through a well-structured Faculty Development
Policy, provided that the faculty has achieved a minimum of 180 points in the academic year. This policy
includes the creation of a Faculty Development Fund, Incentives for high -quality research publication in
classified journals, nominating faculty for teaching / joint research at different business schools across the
globe under faculty exchange, and the nomination of faculty for conferences FDPs of international repute.
The details of the Faculty Development Policy are as follows:

10.1 Faculty Development Scheme:

10.1.1 Faculty Development Scheme for Regular Appointment

IIM Raipur has created the ' Faculty Development Scheme ' to take care of the research and
development of faculty members. This scheme will include the following:

• Research Financial Support Scheme

The Institute encourages faculty members to carry out high -quality research and publish in classified
journals. The research support scheme is intended to fund early -stage, well -thought-out research
proposals with well -defined deliverables from regular faculty members of IIM Raipur. Faculty
members have to submit a detailed proposal of their research project to avail benefit of this fund in the
prescribed format. The amount that any specific research project will be allocated will be based on the
evaluation of the research proposal submitted. It is expected that t he research proposal will result in
publications in classified journals.
a) Research Funding up to Rs.3 Lakhs
Faculty members who have completed one year of service in a regular position at IIM Raipur can
benefit from the S eed money of up to Rs. 3 Lakhs to conduct their research project. Faculty
members will have to submit a detailed proposal of their research in the prescribed format to the
Chairperson (Research) to avail the benefit of this fund. The Research Committee of IIM Raipur
will evaluate the proposal and recommend such (a) proposal(s) to the Director for approval.
b) Research Funding more than Rs.3 Lakhs and up to Rs.10 Lakhs
For proposals between Rs. 3 to 10 Lakhs, two External Experts from IIM Ahmedabad, Bangalore,
Calcutta or IIT Bombay, Delhi, Kanpur, Kharagpur and Madras will be appointed to blind review
the proposal. Faculty members may be asked to deliver a presentation in an open research seminar
in front of these experts. The Research Committee will send the recommendation of experts to the
Director for approval.
c) Research Funding more than Rs.10 Lakhs
The Research Committee will send the recommendation of experts to the Director. Director will
submit the proposal along with the experts' report and his comments for approval to the Board of
Governors of IIM Raipur. If the research proposal is more than Rs. 10 Lakhs, the process
enumerated in subsection (b) will be followed.
Seed grant funds from the Institute can be used to pay for salaries of Research Assistants, travel for
data collection and interviews, and other miscellaneous expenses such as postal/ fax/telephone.
• Seed Fund for Case Writing
Case Seed Grants are intended to fund writing case s. Faculty members have to submit a detailed

79

proposal of their research project to avail themselves of this fund in the prescribed format. It is expected
that the case proposal will result in a publishable case in Harvard Case Publ ishing/Ivey League Case
Publishers/ European Case Clearing House/Emerald. The grant, in this case , will be limited to Rs.1
lakh.
• Presenting Papers at International Conferences
Faculty members can present their research papers in International refer eed conferences once a year,
subject to completion of a minimum of one year of service at IIM Raipur.

Faculty members will get an additional opportunity to present a paper in an International Referred
Conference every time he/she publishes in ‘A’-Class Journals. The Institute will fund the participation
fee, TA/DA (as per Institute rules) , and Visa fee if any, and the faculty member would be treated on
official leave for the duration of the seminar/conference plus journey days.

A cap of Rs. 3.00 lacs for 3 years for attending Research & Publication Committee recommended
International Conference Starting from the Academic Year 2020-21.

The faculty members may use this in addition to Cumulative Professional Development Allowance
(CPDA) of Rs. 3.00 lacs for three years for attending Research & Publication Committee recommended
International Conferences.

10.1.2 Faculty Development Allowance

As per the policy of the Government of India, Ministry of HRD Letter F. No. 23 -1/2008-TS-II dated
August 18 2009, a Cumulative Professional Development Allowance of Rs. Three lakhs for every block
period of 3 years (Rupees one lakh per year) may be made avai lable to every faculty member on a
reimbursable basis to meet the expenses for participating in both national and international conferences
paying the membership fee of various professional bodies and contingent expenses.

Any unspent balance of Faculty Development Fund (Rs. 1.00 lac) shall be rolled over to the second
year and the remaining amount to the third year" for both regular and contractual faculty members.

The revised policy shall be in force for the current block of FDF starting from April 1 2018.

The faculty members can utilize FDA for the purchase of hardware including desktop PC / laptop PC
/ Notebook / Tablets / Printers / Scanners / Audio -video recorders / any other hardware required for
academic work. The total price of any hardware should not exceed Rs. 80,000/- (exclusive of applicable
taxes) in a year. (As per the Office Order 161/2022 dated 6th September 2022)

10.2 The incentive for Research & Case Publications

10.2.1 Incentive for Research Publications

The Incentive for Research Publications has been revised (see Table 3 in Chapter 7). Faculty are allowed
to claim PDF from accumulated points above 180 points per year. PDF encashment is permitted at the rate
of Rs. 6500 per point beyond 180 points. The faculty members are encouraged to use the PDF to participate
in their development, including IT hardware purchases, conferences, seminars, workshops and training
programmes.

80

The maximum PDF disbursement as cash is restricted to Rs. 40 lakhs in an academic year. PDFs beyond
40 lakhs and up to 60 lakhs will be accumulated into the respective faculty member’s account, which can
be used for professional development activities like participating in conferences, seminars, training
programs, and visiting academic institutions located in the country and abroad for research purpose.

The amount available in PDF after encashment can be carried forward for a maximum period of two years,
after which it will lapse automatically. Indirectly, it implies that points earned from research are allowed to
be carried forward to the subsequent years.

• If the journal seeks article processing charges, it would not be considered for incentives/credits.

10.3 Nominating Faculty Members to Faculty Development Programme
10.3.1 International
IIM Raipur will nominate regular faculty members of IIM Raipur to Harvard Business School (HBS) or a
school of similar standing for the Faculty Development Programme.

i. The process to be followed for nomination:

The following process is followed for nominating the faculty members to HBS or any top Business
School in the World:

• Mail is sent to all regular faculty members

• Interested faculty members may send their willingness by the prescribed date through Dean
(Planning & Research). In case of unavailability of the Dean (Planning & Research), the
willingness may be submitted to the Director.

• Selection for nomination to be based on the following criteria:

1 Research (through Publication, Conference and Projects)
2 Teaching (PGP, EPGP, and Doctoral Programmes)
3 Training and Consulting (MDP, EMDP, and Consulting Assignments)
4 Institution Building (Administration, participation in institute academic activities and otherwise)
5 Citizenship (through active participation, talks, lectures, workshops, community service, professional
association, and building social capital)

• A committee comprising the Chairperson, HR Committee, Director, and one external expert of the
level of Professor from IIM / IITs will carry out the process.

ii. General Rules:

• Faculty member nominated to HBS has to sign a bond for one year. I f he/she leaves the Institute
within one year, he/she has to refund the total expenses incurred in travel, TA/DA/registration
fee/salary for that period and any other expenses incurred by the Institute. Prorate policy will NOT
be applied in this case.
• Faculty members must submit a detailed report after attending FDP and submit a copy of the
material to Research Office for official records. They are also required to give a formal

81

presentation to Faculty Council after returning from the programme and share their experience with
all the faculty members.
• In case faculty members leave IIM Raipur within one year after attending the programme, they
must refund all the expenditures incurred by IIM Raipur for the said programme.

10.3.2 National:

Nominating faculty members for Faculty Development Programme organized by IIMs / IITs / other top
business schools in India

i. Process followed for nomination:

The following process is followed for nominating the faculty members to FDPs at the national level:

Interested faculty members send their willingness through Dean (Planning & Research). In case of
unavailability of Dean – Planning & Research, the willingness may be submitted to the Director.

82

11. Guidelines, Rules and Procedures for Management Development Programmes

11.1 Broad Understandings

Executive education is one of the vital components of IIMs offerings. Organizations increasingly recognize
executive education as a crucial tool for developing their managers and executives. The underlying
assumption is that it can improve managerial decision making by creating and transmitting knowledge,
which in turn has a positive impact on company perform ance. In terms of faculty delivering executive
education programs, IIM Raipur highlights the importance of concerned faculty having relevant knowledge
and experience of various business and organizational contexts as a key success factor in executive
education. This factor implies that faculty involved in executive education need to develop the capacity not
only to apply their own research to the organizational and individual context but also to create research
content that matters to practice. Thus, the production and diffusion of knowledge are not treated as separate
realms; instead, their capacity to cross-fertilize each other is more widely appreciated and utilized at IIM
Raipur.

The Executive Education program of IIM Raipur aims to broaden participants' horizon and strengthen their
skills to prepare them to face the challenges of global business. IIM Raipur offers programs at the senior
and middle management level participants also gain new insights from fellow participants from other
organizations. IIM Raipur offers the following programmes:

▪ In-Company Programme
▪ Management Development Programme
▪ Advanced Management Programme

11.2 In-Company Programme

The Institute offers tailor-made in-company executive development programs for executives for middle and
senior-level management of different organizations , including private sectors, Public sectors and
Government.

11.3 Management Development Programme

The IIM Raipur offers Management Development Programs in different areas in engagement to reflect the
evolving realities of business and management practices. The MDPs will allow participants to exchange
ideas and gain insights from a diverse range of peers.

11.4 Advanced Management Programme

The IIM Raipur offers Advance Management Programme to amplify their leadership experience and their
impact on the organization in an increasingly uncertain and complex business world.

11.5 Broad Guidelines for Offering Executive Education

• Excellence in Executive Education contributes to the brand recognition of the school and benefits the
Institute in terms of bridging the industry -academia interface, practitioner’s insights to the faculty,
attracting good quality faculty, dissemination of rigorous and relevant education the postgraduate

83

students. Only those Programmes which provide insights into organizational problems would be
considered. This selection would imply that the Institute will adopt a selective approach a gainst
entertaining every request from a client organisation.

• An appropriate balance between teaching, research, training and consulting is to be achieved. Excessive
time spent on one of the activities at the cost of any of the other activities would not be desirable for
the Institute or individual faculty members. Secondly, consultancy and/or professional activities that
may adversely affect faculty involvement in the Institute's education, research, and training activities
would not be entertained.

11.6 In-Company Programmes

The IIM Raipur would undertake competency development programmes for different levels of executives,
including:

a) Advanced Management Programme (AMPs) for Top Management Level
b) Senior Management Programmes (SMPs) for Senior Management Level
c) Executive Development Programmes (EDPs) for Middle Management Level

Every year in August, IIM Raipur would jointly identify all the development programmes that need to be
undertaken by IIM Raipur for various levels and functions of executives with various client organizations.
This executive education academic planning exercise would become the basis of systematic plans for
execution in the ensuing financial year. The IIM Raipur would sign MoU with various organisations for a
period MoU with various organisations ranging from one to five years, outlining the agreed -upon topics
and areas.

The Director will appoint Key Account Management in consultation with the Dean, where a team of 2 -3
faculty members will look after the client acquisition, retention, and satisfaction.

Client need assessment is carried out by senior faculty members nominated by the Director.

As far as possible and practicable, a problem dimensioning exercise would be undertaken prior to sending
any detailed proposal for In -company Programmes. The programme should be accepted preferably after
the organisation agrees to allow IIM faculty to write a case.

11.7 Rules for In-Company Programmes

The following rules will govern all programmes:

i) All the In-Company Programmes will be undertaken in the name of the Institute. This condition will
also apply to cases where the client may approach an individual faculty directly.

ii) When the client organization approaches the Institute, the Director, in consultation with the Dean, will
nominate a Key Account Management Group comprising at least two faculty members to interact with
the organization to understand the training need of the organisation.

iii) A suitable proposal would then be developed by the Key Ac count Management Group. The Key
Account Management Group will forward the proposal to Director/Dean, who, after scrutiny, will send
the proposal to the client organization. Proforma for budget and expense sheet is attached with
Annexure XIX.

84

iv) Once the client organization accepts the proposal , an MoU will be signed between the client
organisation and IIM Raipur. The director or his nominee will sign the MoU on behalf of IIM Raipur

v) Each programme will have 2-3 Programme Directors

11.8 Nomination of Programme Directors & Delivery

Director will decide on the director(s) for each programme in consultation with the Dean. The decision
about the programme directors is based upon the following:

• The specific request and requirements of the client
• Faculty expertise in a given area/sector/subject
• The seniority of the participants
• Faculty workload
• Faculty’s willingness and interest
• Opportunity is given to new faculty/faculty with less/ no experience to work with senior/ experienced
faculty
• Programme Directors are chosen on a rotation basis so that each faculty member gets a fair chance to
do the programme

The programme director(s) have to finalize the programme objectives and contents in consultation with the
client organization and also finalize reading material and/or book, if any, and handover the same to the
nominated programme assistant at least 10 days before the commencement of the programme, so that the
library can procure the book can procure the book. The cost of the book should not exceed Rs. 500 normally;
however, in the case of AMPs, the cost can be decided in consultation with the Dean.

Programme Directors decide on the faculty members who can deliver the programme for various sessions
at least fifteen days before the commencement of the programme after getting the necessary consent from
the concerned faculty. The detailed programme schedule has to be intimated to the programme office at
least ten days before the commencement of the programme.

11.9 Honorarium for teaching in Long-Term Programs:

The honorarium for teaching in Long Term Programs would be Rs 6500 per hour.

11.10 Executive Education & Consultancy (EE&C) Policy (25 BoG on 5th May 2017)

IIM Raipur will conduct the Management Development Programmes (MDPs) for training the
executives/Practitioners/businessmen/entrepreneurs. The underlying assumption is that it can improve
managerial decision making by crafting and transmitting knowledge, which in turn has a positive impact
on the company’s performance.

Broadly institute classifies the programmes into two categories, namely,
(i) Sponsored programmes
(ii) Open Programmes

85

Sponsored Programmes
• The sponsored programmes are conducted at the request of a specific organization, and the programme
caters to the participants of that single organization. A sponsored programme may be on campus or
,off-campus, or at the Company’s campus.
• All the programmes either received by the Institute directly or through the faculty member of the
Institute will be treated as the sponsored programmes
• All the certificate programmes will be treated as sponsored programme.

Open Programmes

Programmes which are floated by the faculty members of IIM Raipur independently will be termed as open
programmes.

Faculty members who wish to conduct an open programme (s) propose their interest to the EE & C by the
end of April every year. Once the EEC finalizes the MDP calendar , the faculty member submits the
programme's content on or before the 30th of May every year. It enables the EEC to prepare the calendar ,
as well as brochure and the same, could be uploaded on the Institute’s website. EEC office supports
promoting and conducting the programme.

In an open programme, participants have to attend from at least three organizations. Otherwise, it will be
treated as a sponsored programme.

Basic Rules of the Programmes

i) There will be two program directors for every sponsored programme. Chairperson EE & C will finalize
the program directors after receiving willingness from the faculty members, and the Director will ratify
the same . EE & C meeting s will be conducted every month to ensure the smooth functioning of
sponsored programmes.
ii) The honorarium for the program directors is equivalent to one session per day. If program directors are
more than one, the honorarium will be shared proportionately. The upper cap for the PD’s honorarium
is 30 (thirty) hours for certification programmes.
iii) No revenue sharing amongst the faculty members for both the open and the sponsored programmes
iv) All the sessions are monetizable. One session is equivalent to one hour.
v) An honorarium of Rs. 6,500/- per session will be paid.
vi) In Open Programmes, the PDs are expected to take a minimum of 30% of the sessions.
vii) Classroom sessions should not exceed six hours per day. Maximum of two syndication session, A
maximum of two syndication session, are allow ed for a week program. There can be additional
syndication sessions in a smaller group if designed by the Programme Director.

11.11 Revised Executive Learning and Development Policy (Minutes of ELDC
Committee Meeting held on 29th November 2022)

1. Program Director(s) share as a coordinator for program(s):

• Considering one day of training program which consist of 4 session (90 min each) and equivalent to six
hours. Teaching points will be accounted as per institute’s HR policy 2022 i.e., 1 point per hour of
instruction.

86

• In addition to teaching points the faculty member who is a program director also for any said program will
receive one point for six hours of coordination.
• And these points will be credited to individual faculty, and they can claim these points like other teaching
or research points by end of the year or early (if conditions of HR policy have met)

• The Program Director’s share shall be distributed equally among the Program Director’s (PD) where the
number of PD is more than one.
For example, if Program X is of 300 hours and there are two PD’s.
Then the point received by each Program Director(s):
Total no. of points for Program of 300 hours = 50 points (6 hours = 1 point)
Program Director one = Receive 25 points
Program Director two = Receive 25 points

• The earlier proposed draft policy of 5% PD share with a cap of 5 lakh stands cancelled and hence the abovementioned proposal is accepted and shall be used for all future programs under EL&D office.
• In every long duration program, there must be one program director from the industry. Objective of
engaging people from industry or their specialized domain or subject matter expertise is to get good
enrollment and visibility to IIM Raipur’s program.

• Program director from industry would be known as program director only and their profile details would
be used for marketing purpose to get targeted audience by using different social media handles, program
flyers and brochures.

• Program director from industry may take some sessions in a long duration (like 300 hours) program based
on the content requirement and value addition to excellent classroom delivery. Their teaching will be
reimbursed in a similar way as for IIM Raipur’s faculty members or program directors at a similar rate of
Rs. 6500 per hour, as per institute’s HR policy.

• Program Director from industry shall also receive the Program Director’s share as stated above. So, in case
of two program directors from IIM Raipur and one program director from industry, th e share will be
distributed equally among the three. Points earned by the Program Director from industry shall be
reimbursed at the completion of the program.

• For In-company programs where faculty (one or more than one) has taken initiative to bring the program
to the institute would become the program director(s) by default. And the Program director(s) share would
be distributed as 60% to Program Director and 40% to the IIM Raipur from the net surplus.

2. Minimum No. of Session shall be taken by Program Director in MDP (residential or non-residential/Incompany):
• Though EL&D conduct one day to six days long Management Development Program depending on the
client’s requirement. To avoid the chances of not taking any session and just coordinating the program,
members proposed that program directors shall take minimum 2 sessions in 5 days long MDP. (5 days
being taken as a standard benchmark here).
• For 300 hours & long duration programs a minimum of 5 sessions shall be taken by program director(s).

3. Regarding Institute level long duration program such as General Management Program (GMP), Senior
Management Program (SMP).

• The EL&DC office will invite expression of interest (EOI).

87

• Interested faculty members can submit their virtual learning program proposal to EL&D office. It shall be
taken further as per the following process:
• Receiving e -Learning proposal from faculty members and sharing the same with suitable technology
partner.
• Match of the proposal and technical partner shall be identified by Chairperson in consultation with Dean
External & ERP and Director IIM Raipur.
• Sharing & getting feedback (Market survey) from the technology partners.
• Respective faculty will be informed about the feedback, any areas of improvement & final status of the
program.

11.12 Difficulty Resolution

In case any difficulty is experienced or confusions arise on some matters, those may be brought to the
notice of the Dean for effecting any change/modification that may be necessary from time to time.
However, if substantive changes become necessary, the same must have the concurrence of the Director.

88

12. Guidelines, Rules and Procedures for Consultancy & Professional Activities

12.1 Broad Understandings

At IIM Raipur, consultancy and professional activities are to be encouraged since these form integral parts
of education, training and research activities both of the Institute as well as of individual faculty. The
objective behind undertaking consultancy and professional activities is to help improve management
systems in various work organi sations and acquire insights into knowledge application and problem -
solving. It is envisaged that learning derived from consultancy and/or professional activities would be used
in classroom teaching and training sessions and publication and research. At the same time, given the
multiple demands on the faculty time, an appropriate balance needs to be maintained between various
activities so as to ensure that anyone 's task is not performed at the cost of others. Therefore, rules and
procedures become helpful to faculty members in planning and budgeting their time.

With this broad understanding in mind, the following guidelines are developed to facilitate the undertaking
of various consultancy and other professional activities.

12.2 Broad Guidelines

i) Only those assignments which provide insights into organisational problems would be considered.
This choice would imply that the Institute will adopt a selective approach a gainst entertaining every
request from a client organisation.

ii) An appropriate balance between teaching, research, training and consulting is to be achieved.
Excessive time spent on one of th e activities at the cost of any of the other activities would not be
desirable for the Institute or individual faculty members. Secondly, consultancy and/or professional
activities that may adversely affect faculty involvement in the Institute's education , research, and
training activities would not be entertained.

iii) As far as possible and practicable, a problem dimensioning exercise would be undertaken prior to
sending any detailed proposal and final acceptance of the assignment.

12.3 Definitions

All work of the nature of organisational problem solving for which payments are received from the client
system would be defined as “ Consultancy”. All foreign assignments (excluding teaching) will be treated
as “consultancy assignments”.

Casual lecture assignments in various organisations, for which payments are received, would be considered
as “Professional Activities”. Engagements as Guest Faculty in organi sations of repute, occasional talks
which are remunerative, participation in selection committees , Board Membership meetings etc., will be
counted as “Professional Activities”. However, funded research projects, for which no remuneration will
be received, will not come under the purview of either consultancy or professional activities. Also,
assignments such as examinership of reputed Institutions or universities will be treated separately.

The assignments of In-House Training Programmes accepted by individual faculty members on their own
account involving more than four hours of external lectures on a single day, or lectures spanning more than
one day, shall be called Consultancy Training (C.T.) and shall be treated like consultancy. Such
assignments shall not be treated as casual/occasional lectures.

89

12.4 Rules and Operating Procedures

The following rules will govern all consultancy and professional activities.

i) All consultancy assignments will be undertaken in the name of the Institute. These rules will apply to
those cases also where the client may approach an individual faculty directly.

ii) In a year, a faculty member would be permitted to engage herself/himself in consultancy /professional
activities for up to a total of 52 working days. Beyond 52 days, Director will have the discretion to
allow the faculty members to do consultancy for up to 70 days, subject to fulfilment of all academic,
research and administrative requirements of the Institute.

iii) When the client organisation approaches the Institute, the Dean, in consultation with the Director, will
nominate a faculty member or a group o f faculty members to interact with the organisation to
understand the dimension of the problem.

iv) The participating team would then develop a suitable proposal . The team leader will forward the
proposal to Dean, who, after scrutiny, will send the proposal to the client organisation.

v) Once the proposal is sent to the client organisation, the point of contact for the client organisation shall
be the Dean until the proposal is accepted and the client makes the necessary advance payment.

vi) On receipt of the advance payment, Dean will intimate the project team, through its leader, and request
the team to initiate the work. The team leader shall fill in the necessary form and forwards the same
to the Director through Dean for formal approval. Proforma for budget and expense sheet is attached
with Annexure XXI.

vii) Upon Director's approval, the Director's Office will send the form to the Dean's office for assigning a
project number. Once the project number is assigned , the Dean's office will send one copy to the
account office, one to the project leader, and one to the Director's Office, retaining the fourth copy.

viii) Once the project starts, approval requests relating to any expenses to be incurred out of the assignment,
for which provisions exist in the project budget, will be sent to Dean.

ix) Retainership type assignments will also be permitted with the proviso that the duration of such
retainership engagements does not exceed two days per month or 24 days in a year. Fees chargeable
per day for retainership assignment should not be less than Rs.50,000 per day.

x) For counting the number of days spent on consultancy assignments/professional activities, the
minimum unit will be half a day, implying that any remunerative assignment (other than those which
are exempted fro m counting) up to 4 hours duration would be treated as half a day, even when the
actual involvement may be for a lesser duration.

xi) Any consulting work done by the faculty member(s) can be used for meeting the workload
requirements in the ratio of Rs. 6,500/- consulting income for the faculty being considered equal to 1
workload point.

12.5 Budget

The amount to be charged should cover the following elements of cost:

a) Professional fee (faculty time in a number of days multiplied by the rate to be charged per day).
b) Support Staff (Project Associate, Project Assistant, Field Investigator specifically engaged for the
project)
c) External expert/adviser, if any
d) Travel expenses (Airfare, TD/DA/Local conveyance, etc.)

90

e) Data collection (Survey design, questionnaire, other items)
f) Communication, Consumables (Printing and Binding, etc.)
g) Charges for Secretarial and Administrative Assistance and other Institutional Facilities (10% of the
professional fee as per above).
h) Service Tax on total Professional fee (at the prevailing rates at the time of each advance/part
payment).

i) The minimum consultancy fee to be charged from the Corporate will be Rs.1,00,000/- per day, with no
upper limit on the same. However, in very exceptional cases, the Director may consider charging a
lower professional fee rate and/or, institutional overheads, depending on the nature of the assignment.

ii) Similarly, the minimum professional fee to be charged from the State and Central Government will be
Rs.50,000/- per day. However, in very exceptional cases, the Director may consider charging a lower
professional fee rate and/or, institutional overheads, depending on the nature of the assignment.

iii) The client would normally be required to pay 50% of the total cost in advance and the letter of
acceptance of the terms and conditions detailed in the consultancy proposal document.

12.6 Sharing of Professional Fee

i) The income sharing for consultancy and professional activities such as occasional guest lectures,
limited teaching and training involvement at other institutions/ organisations as Visiting Faculty and
honorarium received for publications, Seminars/ Conferences and Consultancy etc. altogether up to
Rs.5.00 lakhs per annum, will be exempt from sharing and the Faculty Members will b e allowed to
retain this amount as additional income. For faculty members who have been on the Institute's payroll
for less than a year, this exemption will be on a pro-rata basis.

ii) Professional fees will be shared with the Institute on the following basis:

Total Professional fees X
Service Tax (ST) @s X.s
Total Professional Fee including ST X+X.s = X(1+s)
Institutional Charges 0.1 X
Total Expenses Y
Surplus (X-0.1X-Y) = (0.9X-Y)
Institutional Share 1/3rd of Net
Faculty Share 2/3rd of Net
A fund will be created out of 10% of this faculty share, which may be used partly for the welfare of the
staff and partly to share among non-gazetted staff, as discussed in section 13.3.

iii) The final disbursement of the faculty share of fees will be made on receipt of a formal report by the
Dean/Director from the project leader that the consultancy work has been completed to the satisfaction
of the client and all the money has been received from the client. As per the faculty workload norms,
the disbursement is subject to the concerned faculty member fulfilling the minimum workload
requirement for the academic year and shall be made at the end of the academic year.

iv) The Dean may permit the final disbursement of the faculty share in advance, provided the concerned
faculty member has already fulfilled his/her minimum workload requirement for the academic year ,
and he/she makes a specific request furnishing proof towards such fulfilment.

91

v) For workload equivalence, professional fees of Rs.3,00,000 from consultancy and consultancy training
will be treated as equal to one credit. Part amounts shall have pro-rated equivalence.

vi) The Director may permit payments in advance, up to 25% of the total fee, subject to deduction of tax,
provided:

a) The duration of the consultancy is likely to extend beyond 6 months;
b) Not less than 50% of the project cost has been received from the client;
c) Project funds are available to cover the fee;
d) Substantial progress has been made on the project
e) The concerned faculty member has already fulfilled his/her minimum workload requirement for
the academic year.

vii) In case a consultancy project needs to be terminated before its completion due to inadequate response
from the client organisation for a year or more (without the receipt of the full consultancy fee), then
the allocation of the received consultancy fee shall be done as follows. First, the Service Tax and the
budgeted amount of expenditure will be reduced from the total amount received from the client. Next,
the Institute overhead shall be reduced in the same proportion as the actual consultancy fee received
(for instance, if 50% of the total consultancy fee has been received, the overhead provided will also be
50% of the budgeted overhead). Next, the balance amount, which is the consultancy fee, shall be
allocated in the ratio of 1/3rd: 2/3rd between the Institute and the concerned faculty members.

viii) All the payments will be received in the Institute's name. Payments, if any, received by the faculty
directly should be endorsed in the name of the Institute by the concerned faculty. If this does not
become possible for some reason, the amount should be remitted to the Institute without delay, along
with the copies of the cheques received from the client.

ix) The project leader might include overtime payment to support staff in the expenditure statement if the
urgency of work required work to be done beyond normal work hours. However, no honorarium or
other payment from the consultancy budget should be made.

12.7 Permissible Consulting Time

i) The total time allowed to each faculty member for consulting (including retainership assignments) and
professional activities (participation as guest faculty in training programmes of other Institutes and
organisations) is 52 working days per annum.

The following activities are excluded from the limit of 52 days available for consulting/professional
activities.

a) teaching in management development programmes organised by IIM Raipur
b) travel time on consultancy work (if not specifically billed to the client)
c) travel time associated with occasional guest lectures for external organisations; and,
d) board membership, paper setting and evaluation, selection committee membership involving a
short-term commitment of two to three days and attending conferences. However, prior approval
and full in formation on all activities are required in accordance with these guidelines and the
guidelines for External Academic Service Activities.

ii) The accounting year for these activities will be an Academic Year (1st April to 31st March).
iii) Prior approval of the Director is required.
12.8 Consultancy Report

92

Normally the consultancy reports of the faculty to a client would be treated in confidence and will not be
available to anyone except Dean/Director for perusal and records. As such, a copy of all project reports
should be submitted to the Dean's Office.

12.9 Accounting and Reporting System

i) Any direct recoverable expense that may get incurred at the client's request but not included initially
may be settled by the concerned faculty member/team leader with the client. However, an intimation
of this is to be sent to Dean.
ii) The team leader of every consulting project would be urged to keep an account of project -related
expenses as this will facilitate the project team's work.
iii) The Accounts Department will also keep an account of all disbursements concerning the project.
iv) All documents relating to the project should clearly state the title of the project and assign a project
code number.
v) With the help of the Finance and Accounts Officer, the project leader should keep a watch on various
expenses incurred under specific budget heads of the project.

12.10 Professional Activities

i) The income sharing for consultancy and professional activities such as occasional guest lectures,
teaching and training involvement at other institutions/organisations, consultancy in India or abroad as
Visiting Faculty, and honorarium received is up to Rs.5 lakhs per annum, will be exempt from sharing
and the Faculty Members will be allowed to retain this amount a s an additional income. For faculty
members who have been on the Institute's payroll for less than a year, this exemption will be on a prorata basis. Following activities will be treated as professional activities.

• Faculty member teaching under Faculty Exchange Programme
• Faculty member invited to teach in a foreign business school/university.
• Guest lectures
• Teaching in MDP other than offered by academic institutions/training organisations of repute,
• Sitting fee in a company/institutions Board
• Any other professional activities

ii) The professional fee/honorarium received for participation in consultancy training, long -duration
recruitment process or publication (if remunerable) will be governed by the consultancy rules regarding
income sharing between Institute and the faculty member. However, if the total amount earned from
professional activities exceeds Rs.5 lakhs, the balance amount will fall within the purview of the
consultancy rules in terms of income sharing with the Institute in the ratio of 1/3rd to the Institute and
2/3rd to the concerned faculty. The Director's prior permission/approval would be required to accept
invitations to the other institute's teaching/training/recruitment programmes. However, no Institute
overhead will be charged for such engagements.

iii) Faculty should not accept assignments of fulfilling teaching courses in other institutes' academic
programmes. However, within the IIM/IIT system or centrally funded institutions, the Director may
accord permission for such engagements in reputed Institutions, subject to income sharing between the
Institute and the faculty members as per clause 10.1 and other Institutional requirements.

iv) Requests for teaching assignments of a full or a part course in lesser -known and/or non-government
institutions will be discouraged.

v) Teaching assignments abroad shall be treated at par with consultancy assignments. Direct expense, in
this case, will include TA, DA and local conveyance as per the Government of India/IIM Raipur Rule.

93

vi) A faculty member may accept assignments of in -house training programmes for a duration of up to 3
days (Consultancy Training). The fee to be charged for assignments of duration up to four hours in one
day (casual/occasional lectures) is left to the discretion of individual faculty members. Assignments of
in-house training programmes of duration beyond 3 days shall be treated as in -house training
assignments of the Institute and may be entertained in consultation with the MDP Chairperson and
concurrence of the Dean. When accepted by a faculty member in individual capacity, Consultancy
Training Assignments will not be undertaken at a fee less than the minimum chargeable fo r the
Institute's in-house MDPs at the client’s site.

vii) All requests for In-company programmes that come in the Institute's name would invariably be treated
as Institute in-company programmes, not an individual consultancy. Requests coming to individuals
in their own names may be considered individual assignments after authorisation. In all such cases ,
request letter(s) received from the client organisation is/are to be enclosed while seeking approval for
taking up the assignment. Unless the client organisation makes a specific request to an individual to
act as a consultant, it may not be possible to treat such requests as a request made to individual faculty
members(s).

12.11 Difficulty Resolution

In case any difficulty is experienced, or confusions arise on some matters, those may be brought to the notice
of the Dean for effecting any change/modification that may be necessary from time to time. However, if
substantive changes become necessary, the same must have the concurrence of the Director.

94

13 Non-Faculty Development Policy

13.1 Non-Faculty Development Scheme (NFDS)

The Non -Faculty personnel are encouraged to develop to their fullest potential and character, capacity,
performance and achievements. Though IIMR within its resources shall help Non-Faculty to acquire new
knowledge and skills, it may not be sufficient , and those employees who are willing to take up higher
education are encouraged to do so , especially if the education so acquired is directly connected with IIMR
activities.

Non-Faculty Development Scheme is admissible to PB-1 (Gp C), PB-2 (Gp B) and PB-3 (Gp A) employees
on regular and contract for two years or more.

IIM Raipur is committed to supporting the development of Non-Faculty Members of the Institute through a
Non-Faculty Development Policy. The policy includes:

a) Non-Faculty Development Programme:

Non-Faculty personnel may be encouraged to attend national level programmes/training
programmes/computer training programmes/visit other IIMs to understand the administrative system,
work and visit abroad for overseas learning programmes seminars relevant to IIM Raipur’s growth and
development. The relevance of these programmes/training to IIMR would be judged and recommended
by Dean / CAO to the Director.

In addition to this, each year one or two employees can be sponsored for any certificate course being
run by the Institute like GMP, Executive Certificate Programme in Business Finance, Executive
Certificate Programme in HRM etc. This will also include any open MDP run by the Institute.
Following rules shall apply:

i. An applicant has to make a formal application in the beginning of the academic year.
ii. The employee should fulfil the minimum entry requirement necessary for the programme.
iii. The employee should have a minimum of 3 years’ work experience at IIM Raipur.
iv. The employee has to get an approval from the Department Head and the CAO to ensure
that the normal working of the department does not get affected.
v. No fee will be charged from the employee.
vi. In a particular year, if there are more than 2 applicants, the decision to shortlist 2 candidates
shall be taken by the Dean, CAO, and a senior professor.
vii. ‘On Duty Leave’ or ‘Special Casual Leave’ will be granted for the said duration.
viii. If, the employee leaves the organization within one year after completion of the Course
/Program/ MDP, the amount of fee for the Course /Program/ MDP will be recovered from
the employee.

b) Non-Faculty Self-development Programme

We allow Non-Faculty Members for higher studies (part-time courses) and professional training.

IIMR will provide the following facilities:

• Reimbursement of 50% of tuition fee up to a maximum of Rs. 1.00 lac

95

• Flexible hours of working in the Institute
• Special Casual Leave during the days of examination
• Those who qualify for the final examination may be considered for accelerated promotion, and prerequisite experience is relaxed by one year.

13.2 Policy for Employee Award

In the non-faculty categories, the Best Employee Award Scheme is operational and will be announced every
year before the Convocation.

The criteria for governing the Best Employee Awards are evolved by a Committee of Dean, one Senior
Professor and CAO for Non-Faculty Awards.

Following provisions are made to operationalize the scheme.

A certificate and a cash award of Rs 25000 shall be given.

a. On the announcement by the Institute, the staff member will have to self-nominate
himself/herself for this ward by giving a complete description of the work done during the year.
Their respective head of the department shall verify this self-nomination.
b. The employee should have completed one full year of service with the Institute.
c. The decision shall be taken by Dean, a senior professor and CAO.
d. The winner of such awards shall not be eligible to apply for the next two years.

13.3 Special Incentive:

Staff members assist Faculty members in organizing MDPs and help them in consulting. It is, therefore,
decided to create a fund out of 10% of the net surplus earned by the faculty through MDPs and Consultancy.
This fund may be used following purposes:

• 50% Fund may be used for the welfare of the staff
• 50% of the surplus fund will be shared among all non-faculty staff in Group A, B, and C)
To be eligible for receiving an incentive, the following norms be fulfilled:
i. The staff member has served the Institute f or more than six months in the financial year for which the
incentive is distributed;
ii. That the staff member continues to serve the Institute at the time of finalization of incentive payment for a
given financial year;
iii. Incentive payout be distributed among all the eligible staff members equally
iv. Where a staff member has worked for more than six months but less than the whole year, the incentive be
distributed on a proportionate basis.
v. The Chief Administrative Officer would decide eligibility for staff and distribution among staff in
consultation with the Director.

13.4 Recognizing length of service

96

Each faculty and staff member should be felicitated on completion of continuous 5 years of service at the Institute
and then in multiples of 5 years. The felicitation may be done on the Foundation Day of the Institute. It should
include a certificate and gift (cash or vouchers also) of a value as follows:

Length of Service Amount
On completion of 5 years 5000
On completion of 10 years 10000
On completion of 15 years 15000
On completion of 20 years 20000
On completion of 25 years 50000
On completion of 30 years 55000
On completion of 35 years 65000

13.5 Bereavement allowance
On the death of one of the contractual employees of the Institute in 2015, BoG, in its 18 th Meeting held on
17th April 2015, directed to release an ex-gratia payment of Rs One Lakh to the deceased's immediate family.

The HR Policy & Service Rules include a policy on granting ex -gratia financial assistance to regular and
contractual employees. The objective of this policy is to provide relief to the family of such employees, to
tide over the crisis brought about by the sudden death/incapacitation of the earning family member and to
offer immediate financial assistance and succor to the distressed family to recover from the (unexpected)
deprivation of the income of the breadwinner.

Board approved grant of ex-gratia financial assistance of Rs. 5 lakh to the next-of-kin within 15 days of death
of employee which will include both faculty and non -faculty whether regular or contractual in addition to
other assistance to be provided as per prevailing Govt. norms.

13.6 Best Service Provider Award in Different Categories

The Institute will award the Best service provider of the Year in different categories such as the best
Gardner, best housekeeping, best security guard, and best maintenance every year.

A certificate and a gift of the value of Rs 5000 under each category shall be given. The following conditions
will apply:

a. The employee has to self-nominate himself/herself by giving a complete description of the work
done during the year. The respective head of the department shall verify this self-nomination.
b. The employee should have completed one full year of service with the Institute.
c. The decision shall be taken by the Dean, CAO, and a senior professor.
d. The winner of such awards shall not be eligible to apply for the next two years.

97

14 Leave, Holidays and Vacation Rules

Working Hours, Holidays

i. Working Hours:
• The working hours in the Institute is 9.30 a.m. to 6.00 p.m. from Monday to Friday with half an
hour lunch break between 1.00 p.m. to 1.30 p.m. However, faculty members and academic staff are
required to be present as per the class schedule.
• Depending upon the requirement, officers and staff may be asked to serve in different shifts and on
weekdays as per requirements.

ii. Holidays:
• During December every year, a circular shall be issued regarding all the holidays for the next year
as per Central Government Rules.

14.1 Leave(s)

The Faculty/Non-Faculty of the Institute may be sanctioned leave as prescribed below. These rules will be
subject to the condition that leave(s) cannot be claimed as a matter of right, and when the exigencies of the
Institute so require, discretion to refuse or revoke leave of any description is reserved to the sanctioning
authority. Ordinarily, leave(s) will not be granted to the academic staff in the middle of the academic term
except on medical grounds / extreme compassionate grounds.

14.2 Casual Leave (CL)

Casual leave admissible to a Faculty/Non-Faculty for eight days for a calendar year subject to the following
conditions:

i) No more than five days of casual leave may be allowed at any one time.
ii) Casual leave cannot be combined with leave of any other description.
iii) Sundays and Holidays falling during a period of Casual Leave are not counted as part of Casual Leave.
iv) Casual Leave can be taken while on tour, but no daily allowance will be admissible for the period.
v) Casual Leave can be taken for half day too.
vi) LTC can be availed during Casual Leave.
vii) Individuals appointed and joining duty during the middle of a year may avail themselves of casual
leave proportionately.
viii) Casual leave cannot be accumulated and leave not availed during any particular calendar year shall
lapse at the end of that year.
ix) CL application form is placed in Annexure XIII

98

14.3 Restricted Holiday

Faculty/Non-Faculty are eligible to avail of two days of Restricted Holiday in a calendar year.

14.4 Earned Leave and Vacation Leave

i. Faculty members will normally be entitled to a vacation of 60 days instead of earned leave in the
following two spells :

• Summer Vacation of 45 days from 21st April to 4th June
• Winter vacation of 15 days from 16th December to 30th December

ii. Faculty members will be considered not to have availed themselves of the vacation only if they are
required by general or special order of a Director to forgo such vacation or portion of a vacation. The
vacation period not availed by the faculty will be converted into EL as per the formula given below:

02 Vacation Days = 01 Earned Leave

e.g. If a faculty member has availed themselves of 35 days during the Summer Vacation, the balance
of 10 days of summer vacation will be credited as 05 days Earned Leave in his / her Leave account.

iii. ‘Year’ means twelve months of actual duty and not as in ‘calendar year’.

iv. For new entrants to the faculty, the quantum of vacation will be proportionate to the period of service
preceding the vacation.

v. Vacation may be combined with any other kind of leave. If the vacation is combined with earned leave,
the whole spell will be reckoned as earned leave for the purpose of applying the limit up to which
earned leave can be taken at a time. For example, in combination with a vacation from 21.04.2014 to
04.06.2014, earned leave up to a maximum of 135 days can be granted to an employee in continuation
from 05.06.2014 to 19.07.2014.

vi. Credit – credit will be afforded in advance at a uniform rate of 15 days on the 1st of January and 1st of
July every year. 1/10th of extraordinary lea ve will reduce the credit to be afforded availed and/or
period of dies non during the previous half-year, subject to a maximum of 15 days and top the extent
of such credit only.

vii. Accumulation – Earned leave can be accumulated up to 300 days in addition to the number of days for
which encashment has been allowed along with LTC

viii. While limiting the maximum of 300 days, where the balance at credit is 286 -300, further advance
credit of 15 days on 1 st January / 1st July will be kept separately and set off against the EL availed of
during that half-year ending 30 th June / 31 st December. However, if the leave availed is less than 15
days, the remainder will be credited to the leave account subject to the ceiling of 300 days at the close
of that half-year.

ix. The credit for the half-year in which an employee is appointed will be afforded at the rate of 2.5 days
for each completed calendar month of service that he is likely to render in the calendar half -year in
which they are appointed.

x. The credit for the half-year in which an employee of the institute is due to retire/resign from the service
will be afforded at the rate of 2.5 days for each completed calendar month in that half -year up to the
date of retirement/resignation.

99

xi. The credit for the half-year in which an employee is removed /dismissed from service in service will
be afforded at the rate of 2.5 days per completed calendar month up to the end of the calendar month
preceding the calendar month in which he/she is removed/dismissed. In the case of the death of a n
employee while in service, a credit will be afforded at the rate of 2.5 days per completed calendar
month up to the date of death.

xii. If an employee retires/resigns/is removed/is dismissed/dies in the middle of a calendar year, the earned
leave credited should be reduced at the rate of 1/10th of any extraordinary leave taken in that half-year
and the leave account regularized.

xiii. While affording credit of Earned Leave, a fraction of a day shall be rounded off to the nearest day.

xiv. An employee who resigns or quits service shall be entitled to cash equivalent in respect of earned leave
at credit on the date of cessation of service to the extent of half of such leave at his credit subject to a
maximum of 150 days.

xv. Employees re -joining after availing of earned leave/medical leave etc. , should inform the
Director/CAO/ as the case may be of their re-joining the Institute from leave.

xvi. EL application form is placed in Annexure XIV

xvii. Earned leave can be availed for up to 180 days at a time.

Exception:
a) Earned leave exceeding 180 days but not exceeding 300days at a time may be granted to Group
‘A’ and Group ‘B’ Officers if at least the quantum of leave in excess of 180 days is spent outside
India, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Burma, Sri Lanka, Nepal and Pakistan.
b) Earned Leave may be taken at a time up to 300 days as leave preparatory to retirement.
c) For non-Faculty, earned leave of 30 days per year is admissible.

14.5 Half Pay Leave

i. Half pay leave is credited in advance at the rate of 10 days on the 1 st of January and 1 st of July every
year. The advance credit for the half-year in which an employee of the Institute is appointed will be at
the rate of 5/3 days for each completed calendar month of service he/she is likely to render in the halfyear in which he/she is appointed.

ii. The credit for the half-year in which an employee of the institute is due to retire/resigns from the service
will be afforded at the rate of 5/3 days for each completed calendar month in that half -year up to the
date of retirement/resignation.

iii. The credit for the half-year in which an employee is removed /dismissed from service or dies in service
will be afforded at the rate of 5/3 days for each completed calendar month up to the end of the calendar
month preceding the calendar month in which he/she is removed/dismissed/dies.

iv. Half pay leave can be availed either with or without a medical certificate.

v. Half pay leave can be converted into full pay leave by taking it as commuted leave if the leave applied
for was on a medical certificate.

vi. While affording credit of half pay leave, a fraction of a day shall be rounded off to the nearest day.

100

14.6 Commuted Leave

i. Commuted leave is granted to the Employee of the Institute, whether Regular or Contractual , on a
medical certificate.

ii. Commuted leave not exceeding half the amount of half-pay leave due can be taken on a medical
certificate

iii. Commuted leave can be taken without a medical certificate –

• Up to a maximum of 90 days in the entire service if utilized for an approved course of study
certified to be in the public interest.
• Up to a maximum of 60 days by a female employee if it is in continuation of maternity leave.
• Up to a maximum of 60 days by a female employee with less than two living children if she adopts
a child less than one-year-old.

iv. Commuted leave can be granted only when the leave sanctioning authority is satisfied that there is a
reasonable prospect of the employee returning to duty o n its expiry. So it cannot be granted as leave
preparatory to retirement.

v. If commuted leave is taken, twice the number of days availed should be debited in the half pay leave
account.

vi. When an employee granted commuted leave quits service voluntarily without returning to duty, the
commuted leave shall be treated as half pay leave, and the excess leave salary shall be recovered. If the
retirement is by reason of ill-health incapacitating him/her for further service or in the event of death,
recovery should not be made.

vii. Commuted leave may be granted at the request of the employee even when earned leave is due to him.

14.7 Leave Not Due

i. Leave not Due may be granted to a regular employee with no half-pay leave at credit.

ii. Contractual employees with a minimum of one year of service and suffering from TB, Leprosy, Cancer
or Mental illness may also be granted Leave Not Due (LND) if the post from which the employee
proceeds on leave is likely to last till his return.

iii. It is granted on a medical certificate if the leave sanctioning authority is satisfied that there is a
reasonable prospect of the employee returning to duty on its expiry.

iv. Leave Not Due may be granted without a medical certificate –

• In continuation of maternity leave
• To a female employee with less than two living children, if she adopts a child less than one-yearold.

v. The amount of leave should be limited to the half-pay leave that the employee is likely to earn
subsequently.

vi. LND during the entire service is limited to a maximum of 360 days.

vii. LND will be debited against the -pay leave that the employee subsequently earns.

viii. It cannot be granted in the case of ‘Leave Preparatory to Retirement’.

101

ix. When an employee granted LND resigns from service or is permitted to retire voluntarily without
returning to duty, the leave not due should be cancelled. The resignation or retirement will take effect
from the date on which such leave had commenced, and the leave salary should be recovered.

x. Where an employee, who has availed himself/herself of LND, returns to duty but resigns or retires from
service before he has earned such leave, he shall be liable to refund the leave salary to the extent the
leave has not been earned subsequently.

xi. Leave salary will not be recovered if the retirement is due to ill-health, incapacitating the employee for
further service or in the event of death, or retired prematurely.

xii. It can be granted to an officer whose leave account shows a debit balance in consequence of the grant
of LND on a previous occasion.

14.8 Extraordinary Leave (EOL)

i. Extraordinary leave is granted to an employee:
• When no other leave is admissible
• When other leave is admissible, but the employee applies in writing for EOL.

ii. EOL cannot be availed concurrently during the notice period when going on voluntary retirement.

iii. No leave salary is admissible during the period of extraordinary leave, otherwise called ‘leave without
pay.’

iv. No leave of any kind can be granted to an employee for a continuous period exceeding five years.
Subject to this limitation, any amount of EOL may be sanctioned to the regular employee of the
Institute.

v. The following norms for EOL for the faculty will apply.

vi. The Director will grant the leave if he is satisfied that there will not be any major dislocation in the
Institute's activities and that the Institute is also likely to benefit from the assignment being offered to
the faculty.

vii. For Faculty, the limit on any occasion is:

• Faculty with min. of 03 years continuous service: Up to one year
• Faculty with min. of 06 years continuous service: Up to two years

viii. The Director will have the discretion to relax the service period or leave by a few months in deserving
cases. All such requests for leave will be placed before the HR Committee for a decision.

ix. A faculty member who has availed themselves of leave without pay has to be on pay service of the
Institute for three years to be come eligible for one year leave without pay and six years continuous
service to become eligible for two years leave without pay again. Such requests for leave will also be
placed before the HR Committee of the Institute for a decision on the request.

▪ Two spells of EOL, intervened by any other kind of leave, should be treated as one continuous
spell for the purpose of applying the maximum limit.

▪ EOL may also be granted to regularize period of absence without leave retrospectively.

102

14.9 Leave Salary

Earned Leave – The leave salary will be equal to the pay drawn immediately before proceeding on earned
leave

Half Pay Leave – Leave salary will be equal to half the amount admissible while on earned leave.

Commuted Leave – Leave salary will be equal to the amount admissible while on earned leave.

Extraordinary Leave – No leave salary is admissible during the period of extraordinary leave , otherwise
called ‘leave without pay.’

14.10 Maternity Leave

Admissible to married/unmarried female employees during:

a. Pregnancy - 180 days - Admissible only to employees with less than two surviving children
b. Miscarriage/abortion (induced or otherwise): A total of 45 days in the entire service. Admissible
irrespective of the number of surviving children.

The application should be supported by a certificate from AMAs.

i. The leave is not debited to the leave account. It is granted on full pay. It may be combined with leave
of any other kind except casual leave.
ii. Any leave (including commuted leave up to 60 days and leave not due) may be taken without a medical
certificate for up to one year in continuation except casual leave.
iii. The leave Counts as service for increments.
iv. The leave Counts as service for pension.
v. The leave is not admissible for threatened abortion

14.11 Paternity Leave

Male employees of the Institute with less than two surviving children can avail themselves of this leave. The
important norms of this leave are:

i. Duration - Fifteen days during the confinement of his wife.
ii. Leave Salary - Equivalent to last pay drawn.
iii. Not to be debited to the leave account. It may be combined with any other kind of leave except
casual leave, as in the case of maternity leave.
iv. Not to be refused normally.

14.12 Sabbatical Leave

The following norms will be followed for the grant of Sabbatical leave to the faculty.

a. A minimum of six years of continuous service as faculty is essential.
b. The maximum period of Sabbatical Leave will be one year, inclusive of vacation.

103

c. The Sabbatical leave may be granted for any one of the following purposes:
• to conduct research
• to write textbooks or other related works.
• Any other purposes as approved by the Institute.
d. The grant of Sabbatical leave would not be automatic , but the Institute will have to consider various
other aspects before approval of the grant of Sabbatical Leave.

e. While on Sabbatical leave, a faculty member should not accept any other employment outside.
However, if he/she wants to spend his/her sabbatical leave in Raipur will be allowed to use the office,
provide reasonable secretarial help (normally half of one's regular entitlement) and reimburse medical
expenses. Further, if the concerned faculty member desires to participate on a limited basis in teaching
programmes while he/she is on leave , he/she may be allowed to do so without giving him/her any
additional honorarium. Such teaching involvement would, however, be minimal.

f. No faculty member is permitted to do consultancy while on sabbatical leave.

14.13 Study Leave /Fellowship/Post-Doc Programme/Training

When an employee applies for study leave to pursue further study/ Fellowship/ Post-Doc Programme/
Training, it is considered that this has a direct bearing on subjects with which the Institute is concerned.
The study or training will, as a consequence, serve the interest of the Institute, although not to the extent of
placing him on deputation, the employee may be granted this leave under the following terms and
conditions:

i. The Institute will not ordinarily pay for the travel of the employee.
ii. Study leave will not be debited to the leave account of the employee.
iii. The leave salary during study leave will be as decided by the Director.
iv. The total period of the leave so sanctioned should not normally exceed twelve months and may be
granted only if the employee has rendered more than three years' continuous service. This condition
may be relaxed in special circumstances, and a shorter period, in no case less than two years, maybe
accepted as minimum qualifying service.
v. Study Leave may be taken in combination with earned leave.
14.14 Leave Sanctioning Authority

The sanctioning authority for various categories of employees is as under:

Category Sanctioning Authority
Faculty /Officers Director
Other Staff & Below Chief Administrative Officer/Respective Activity Heads

No employee shall leave the station of posting without obtaining prior permission from the Leave
Sanctioning Authority as applicable in his / her case.

14.15 Leave Without Pay (LWOP)

A faculty member who avails themselves of study leave or sabbatical or any other leave other than CL, EL,
and ML is required to produce documents/certificates related to his relieving from the host organizations,
subject to the satisfaction of the Director.

104

15 Leave Travel Concession Rules

Leave Travel Concession (LTC) , introduced in 1956 , was regulated by orders issued from time to time.
These were brought out in the form of CCS (LTC) Rules, 1988.

15.1 Admissibility:

LTC Rules are allowed only to those Faculty and Non-Faculty, who have completed one year of service on
the date of journey. F aculty and Non -Faculty appointed on a contract basis will be eligible for LTC on
completion of one year’s continuous service if the period of the contract is more than one year. Where the
initial contract is for one year but is later extended, the total du ration of the contract will be taken into
account for this purpose. (Refer to the Rule 2 (2)).

a. LTC can be availed during regular/casual / study leave / special leave or
b. Vacation but it cannot be availed during the weekend any other period of the holiday alone.
c. Employees who are eligible to travel by air must travel in Economy class only, irrespective of
entitlement.
d. Air travel for LTC can be made by private airlines, and the ticket should be purchased through the
following three authorised agents as GoI O.M. No. 19024/03/2021 -E.IV dated 16 Feb 2022 and 31 st
Dec 2021:-
(i) M/s Balmer Lawrie & Company Limited (BLCL)
(ii) M/s Ashok Travels & Tours (ATT)
(iii) Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Limited (IRCTC)

15.2 Types of LTCs / Block Years

a. LTC to visit the hometown is allowed once in a two-year block. The two-year blocks begin from 1956to 1957. The current blocks are 2014-2015 and 2016-2017.
b. LTC to visit any place in India once in four years is in lieu of one of the two Hometown LTCs available
in that block. The four-year block will commence from, e.g., 2006-2009, 2010-2013 and 2014-17.
c. From 01-09-2008, fresh recruits to Central Government are allowed to travel to their hometown along
with their families on three occasions in a block of four years and to any place in India on the fourth
occasion. This facility is available to the Government Officers only for the first two blocks of four
years, applicable after joining the Government service for the first time. The block of Four years will
apply with reference to the initial date of joining the Government service even though the employee
subsequently changes the job within the government. Those who have not completed 8 years of service
as of 01-09-2008 are also eligible for this concession. The existing block will remain the same, but the
entitlements of the new recruit will be different in the first eight years of service. (O.M. dated 23 -092008)

15.3 EL Encashment Facility:

Earned leave up to a maximum of ten days at a time may be encashed without any linkage to the number
of days and the nature of leave availed while proceeding on LTC. This facility is limited to a maximum of
60 days during the entire career, and a total number of days so encashed will not be included for computing
the maximum quantum of leave encashable at the time of quitting service. – Rule 15, GIDs (8) and (9)

105

15.4 Relaxation to travel by air to visit Northeast Region, Union Territory of Jammu &
Kashmir, Union Territory of Ladakh and Andaman & Nicobar Islands

As per the Government of India Rules – Mutatis Mutandia.

15.5 Carryover of Leave Travel Concession

An employee who is unable to avail themselves of the leave travel concession within a particular block of
two years or four years may avail of the same within the first year of the next block of two years or four
years. If an employee is entitled to leave travel concession to hometown, he can carry forward the leave
travel concession to any place in India for a block of four years only if he carried forward the leave travel
concession to home town in respect of the second block of two years within the block of four years.

15.6 A place to be visited by Employee and family members of his family under LTC to
any place in India

A Faculty/Non-Faculty and each member of his family may visit different places of their choice during a
block of four years. It shall not be necessary for members of the family of the employee to visit the same
place as that visited by the employee themselves at any time earlier during the same block.

15.7 Reimbursement:

Reimbursement under the LTC scheme shall not cover incidental expenses and expenditure s incurred on
local journeys. Reimbursement for expenses of the journey shall be allowed only on the basis of a point-topoint journey on a through ticket over the shortest direct route.

15.8 Forfeiture of Claim:

A claim for reimbursement of expenditure incurred on a journey under leave travel concession shall be
submitted within three months after the completion of the return journey if no advance had been drawn.
Failure to do so will entail forfeiture of the claim, and no relaxation shall be permissible in this regard.

15.9 Grant of advance and adjustment thereof

a. An advance may be granted to an employee to enable them to avail themselves of the concession. The
amount of such advance in each case shall be limited to 90 % of the estimated amount, which the
Institute would have to reimburse in respect of the cost of the journey both ways.
b. If the family travels separately from the Employee, the advance may also be drawn separately to the
extent admissible.
c. The advance may be drawn both for the forward and return journeys at the time of commencement of
the forward journey, provided the period of leave taken by the Employee or the period of anticipated
absence of the members of the family does not exceed three months or ninety days. If this limit is
exceeded, then the advance may be drawn for the outward journey only.
d. If the limit of 3 months or ninety d ays is exceeded after the advance had already been drawn for both
the journey, one half of the advance should be refunded to the Govt. forthwith.

106

e. The advance should be refunded in full if the outward journey is not commenced within 30 days of the
grant of advance. However, in cases where reservations can be made sixty days before the proposed
date of outward journey and advance is granted accordingly, the Employee should produce the tickets
within ten days of the withdrawal of advance, irrespective of the date of commencement of journey.
f. Where an employee has drawn an advance, the claim for reimbursement of the expenditure incurred on
the journey shall be submitted within one month of the completion of the return journey. On a n
Employee’s failure to do so, h e shall be required to refund the entire amount of advance forthwith in
one lump sum. No request for recovery of advance in instalments shall be entertained.
g. Apart from the application for the grant of LTC Advance, leaves during the LTC period must be
sanctioned by the respective authority in the prescribed format.

107

16 TA/DA Rules

16.1 Travel:

The government of India specified classes/modes that would apply.

16.2 Boarding, lodging and local conveyance:

Sl.
No.
Pay Accommodation
Rs./day

Food per day

Local Travel
1 Director As per actual Rs.750 As per actual
2 Grade pay above Rs.10,000 Rs.7500 Rs.750 A/C Taxi
3 Grade pay Rs.7600 and
above
Rs.4500 Rs.450 A/C taxi
4 Grady pay Rs.5400 & 6600 Rs.2250 Rs.300 Taxi
5 Grade Pay Rs.4800 & 4200 Rs.750 Rs.225 Auto

In case of faculty members and staff stay in a superior class than their eligibility, prior approval of the
Director is required.

Local Conveyance:

a) The actual to and fro expense from the airport/railway station/bus terminus to the place of stay by
the eligible mode of travel will be reimbursed based on bills. If the travel is undertaken by a city
taxi (blue/yellow cab/black and yellow taxi), auto or bus, then a declaration/self-certification by
the claimant would be sufficiently provided with the per km rate does not exceed Rs.15/-.

b) The local conveyance inside the city/town per day would be in addition to (i) above and reimbursed
against the bill subject to a maximum of Rs. 1500/- per day. The per day limit for local conveyance
is of Rs.1500/ -, / -; however, if it exceeds the limit, special permission of from the Director is
required. If the travel is undertaken by a city taxi (blue/yellow cab/black and yellow taxi), auto or
bus, then a declaration by the claimant would be sufficiently provided with the per km rate does
not exceed Rs.15/-.

Special Cases:

a) The above rules ill not apply if the client's travel, local conveyance, boarding and lodging expenses
are borne/reimbursed. It is recommended that while finalizing the terms of the contract/agreement,
care is taken to ensure that it is not lower than what is provided by the Institute.

b) Where the project/consultancy has specific budgets for TA/DA, the class of travel and allowances
can be higher than those mentioned above, provided that the same is within the budget and
approved by the Director / Competent Authority.

16.3 T.A. on Transfer, TA Entitlement of Retiring Employees:

As per the Government of India Rules – Mutatis Mutandia.

108

16.4 International (Conference) Travel for faculty:

Norms for the International Conference Travel

• Expenses related to the lowest registration fee
• Lowest Economy round trip travel
• Visa expenses
• Local conveyance at the conference location to be paid on actuals by the cheaper mode of transport.
• Per-diem as per the UN norms for the number of days of the Conference attended plus a maximum of
two days of travel.

16.5 Special Cases:

• The above rules ill not apply if the client's travel, local conveyance, boarding and lodging expenses
are borne/reimbursed. It is recommended that while finalizing the terms of the contract /agreement,
care is taken to ensure that it is not lower than what is provided by the institute.
• Where the project/consultancy has specific budgets for TA/DA, the class of travel and allowances can
be higher than those mentioned above, provided that the same is within the budget and approved by
the Director / Competent Authority.

16.6 T.A. on Joining:

Faculty members and staff members will be given an incentive of transfer grant equal to one month’s
basic pay plus AGP / GP plus the cost of transportation of personal luggage at actuals.

16.7 Mileage Points:

Mileage Points accruing as a part of the official travel would be the property of the individual
employees.

16.8 Travel Advance and Settlement Rules:

6.4.2 Amount :
An amount sufficient to cover the official's travelling expenses, not exceeding 90% of the
estimated expenditure, viz., daily allowance, road/rail/airfares, for journeys both ways.

6.4.3 Conditions :
The advance should be adjusted within 5 working days of completion of the tour/rejoining duty
if gone on leave immediately on completion of the tour. As the second advance cannot be
sanctioned until an account has been given of the first except when a second journey is required
to be undertaken soon after the completion of the first, leaving no time for the employee to prefer
his T.A. Bill in respect of the first advance

6.4.4 Recovery:
By adjustment from the T.A. Bill submitted after completion of the journey. Unspent balance to
be refunded within 5 days after return to the Institute.

6.4.5 Travel settlement

109

• Faculty/Staff who are travelling on office work would send the appropriate Travel Request
Form before the travel date for approval. The Travel Request Form should clearly mention
the head of an account to which the expenditure is to be debited. The TA advance form is
placed in Annexure XV.
• After the travel is completed, the concerned employee would send the travel allowance form
with appropriate supporting documents to Finance &Accounts Department.
• This settlement would be vetted by the Finance & Accounts Department as per the existing
norms and certify the expenses.
• The final settlement of the travel would be approved by the Director based on the certification
from Accounts.

110

17. Medical Scheme

17.1 The rule for outdoor and indoor medical treatment for self and dependent family members
of the employees of IIM Raipur.

OPD:
Medical treatment up to Rs. 15,000/- per annum will be reimbursed for Out-Patient treatment for self and
dependent family members on production of doctor and supporting bills. The claim beyond this amount of
Rs. 15,000/- will be subjected to TDS Deduction.

Indoor Treatment:
For indoor treatment Institute entered in to an MoU with National Insurance Company Limited, Durg,
Chhattisgarh, for “Group Medical Policy” on 20th Feb 2014 for Regular and Contractual Employees of two
years. The ‘Group Mediclaim Policy’ covers all Faculty and Non -Faculty of the Institute and their
dependent family members for a total cover of Rs 5 lakh per annum.

Group Mediclaim Policy is arranged for faculty and non -faculty of IIM Raipur on regular service or on
contract for a period of more than a year. Contractual employees appointed for a duration of 11 months be
also covered under Group Medical Policy. Such employees should have not been covered under ‘Pradhan
Mantri Ayushman Bharat Yojna’. A declaration to this effect will be obtained from them that they are not
covered under any other Govt. scheme for insurance.

The salient features of the Group Mediclaim Policy are placed in Annexure XIII.

17.2 Medical facilities on the Premises of IIM Raipur

Medical Consultants are appointed by the Institute for medical consultancy & preliminary treatment of
students and employees. They are available in the Institute from 4:00 PM to 5:00 PM on the days mentioned
in the table given below:

Sl. No. Doctors Speciality Visiting Hours Visiting Days
1 MBBS From 10 am to 11 am Monday to Friday
2 Physician of Hospital From 4:00 PM to 5:00
PM
Monday to Friday

Resident Staff Nurse is available in Health Centre from 9:30 am to 6 pm. Staff Nurse is authorized to give
treatment/medicines on advice of the above doctors only. However, she provides the basic first aid in case
of any emergency.

111

18. Children Education Allowance Scheme

Under the Scheme of Children Education Allowance, reimbursement can be availed by Faculty and Non -
Faculty employees for up to a maximum of 2 children.

i) Children’s Education Allowance and Reimbursement of Tuition Fee , which was hitherto payable
separately, will be merged and will henceforth be known as the ‘Children Education Allowance
Scheme’.
ii) Reimbursement, as indicated above, will be applicable for expenditure on the education of schoolgoing children only, i.e., for children f rom class nursery to twelfth, including classes eleventh and
twelfth held by junior colleges or schools affiliated to Universities or Boards of Education.
iii) Henceforth, the Children Education Allowance reimbursement shall not be linked with the child’s
performance in his class. In other words, even if a child fails in a particular class, the reimbursement
of the Children Education Allowance shall not be stopped.
iv) Reimbursement for the following items can be claimed under this Scheme:

a) Tuition Fee, admission fee, laboratory fee, the special fee charged for agriculture, electronics,
music or any other subject, Fee charged for practical work under the programme of work
experience, the fee paid for the use of any aid or appliance by the child, library fee, games/sports
fee and fee for extra-curricular activities. This list also includes reimbursement for the purchase
of one set of textbooks and notebooks, two sets of uniforms and one set of school shoes which
can be claimed for a child in a year. The annual ceiling fixed for the Children Education
allowance reimbursement is Rs.12000/-.
b) Under this scheme, reimbursement can be claimed once every quarter. The amount that can be
claimed in a quarter could be more than Rs.3,000 and in another quarter less than Rs.3000, subject
to the annual ceiling of Rs.12,000 per child being maintained.
c) In case both the spouses are employees, only one of them can avail of reimbursement under
Children Education Allowance.
d) Hostel subsidy will be reimbursed up to the maximum limit of Rs.3000 per month per child ,
subject to a maximum of 2 children. However, both hostel subsidy and the Children Education
Allowance cannot be availed concurrently.
e) The above limits would be automatically raised by 25% every time the Dearness Allowance on
the revised pay structure goes up by 50%.
f) Reimbursement would be made on the submission of original receipts based on self-certification
by the employee.

112

19. Housing Rules

The Institute will provide a semi-furnished housing facility to the Faculty and Non -Faculty (full-time
faculty and on contract) upon request , subject to the availability of houses. The residential units on the
campus will be made available to the Faculty and Non-Faculty, subject to availability and norms laid out
for allotment. However, if there are no vacant residential units, the Faculty and Non-Faculty are required
to arrange suitable accommodation on their own. If the Faculty and /or Non-Faculty makes his/her own
arrangements, then applicable HRA will be provided.

i. For Faculty, all the campus houses are identical in size and are allotted in order of seniority
determined by the date of joining of the faculty.
ii. For Non-Faculty, the campus houses are of two types : Type-I and Type-II. The campus houses are
allotted to Non -Faculty as per the cadre and in order of seniority determined by the date of their
joining.
iii. Out of turn allotment may be made in exceptional situations if institutional requirements so demand
in the opinion of the Director.
iv. If an employee does not accept the housing offer made to him/her, his/her name will be shifted to
the bottom of the waiting list for Housing Allotment. When an institutional commitment has been
made, for such a situation, institutional commitment will have priority over seniority on the waiting
list.
v. If an employee goes on leave of absence or on deputation for a period not exceeding one year, he/she
can either retain the house for the period of his/her leave or can let the Institute use the house (full or
part) during his/her absence. In the latter case, the person concerned will have the right to reoccupy
the house when he/she returns from leave.
vi. If an employee goes on leave for a period exceeding one year, he/she will have to surrender the house
to the Institute from the date the leave commences, but his/her seniority will be kept intact. If a house
becomes available and the employee is due to return in a month’s time, the same will be retained for
allotment to the person provided he/she informs well in advance writing he/she wants campus
accommodation. The allotment letter will be issued only when the employee actually returns and
rejoins the Institute.
vii. A faculty member who has exercised the right to reoccupy the house on return from leave (Refer
point 19.v.) must spend at least three more years at the Institute after his/her return from long leave
before he/she is again entitled to the option specified in point 19. v.
viii. A house may be allotted for a short stipulated period based on seniority (that is, time spent in the
service of IIM Raipur as a faculty) that exists on the date it becomes available.
ix. The office concerned, which is allotting the campus houses, shall monitor the availability of houses
periodically and inform the employees concerned accordingly.

x.1. Mandatory Offer in writing for the accommodation is to be made to all eligible faculty or staff if
Type Accommodation is available on the campus.

x.2. The HRA shall not be admissible to those who occupy accommodation provided by the Institute or
those to whom accommodation has been offered by the Institute but have refused it. In the latter case,
the HRA will not be admissible for the period of six months for which a faculty /staff is debarred
from further allotment of accommodation under applicable housing Rules. On the completion of the
debarred period, if type accommodation is vacant, the individual will be again offered the house, and
if he/she refuses, he/she will be debarred for a further period of 6 months, and the HRA will not be
admissible.

x.3. Those who want to later surrender and vacate the accommodation, unless, on retirement, resignation
or completion of the contract, will be allowed to do so with at least 30 days’ notice. However, if no

113

one is on the waiting list for Type Accommodation and the said accommodation is likely to remain
unoccupied, for such cases, the HRA will recommence w.e.f the date the accommodation is allotted
to the next person or after 6 months of surrendering the accommodation by the individual, whichever
is earlier.

x.4. The above-amended rules will be applicable to all new faculty/staff joining and anyone surrendering
accommodation hereafter (w.e.f 15 Nov 2019).

19.1 General Conditions:

After allotment of house, employees will have to sign an agreement with the institute in the prescribed
format. In every case, the allottee shall be deemed to be a licensee and not a tenant.

i. The allottee will have to enter into an agreement with IIM Raipur for the permissive use of
the house allotted to him/her on a non-judicial stamp paper worth Rs.100/-
ii. An allottee, whether temporary or permanent, shall cease to draw House Rent Allowance
from the date of moving into the allotted house, or in case he/she does not accept the offer,
and there is no other claimant, and an appropriate license fee will be payable by the
allottee to the Institute as stipulated by the Central Government from time to time. The
license fee payable to the Institute will commence from the date of occupation of the house.
iii. If an allottee dies, the allotment shall be cancelled from the date of death, provided that the
Director will have the discretion to extend the period of retention of the campus house by
the family of the deceased in appropriate cases for up to 4 months after the death of the allottee.
During such occupation, the rent last paid by the deceased allottee will be payable to the
Institute.
iv. If an allottee retires or resigns or is dismissed or removed from service, the allotment shall
be cancelled from the date of retirement, resignation, dismissal or removal, provided that the
Director will have the discretion to extend the period of retention in appropriate cases for up
to 4 months after the date of retirement, resignation, dismissal, or removal, and on such terms
and conditions the Director deems fit.
v. An allottee who wants to vacate the residence shall give at least thirty days’ notice in writing
to the Chief Administrative Officer/ Appropriate administrative authority. If he/she does not
do so, he/she will be responsible for t h e payment of rent for that period or the number
of days by which the notice given by him/her falls short of 30 days.
vi. The allottee shall not sublet or transfer the residence allotted to him or her, or any portion
thereof of the out-houses, apartments thereto if any. In contravention of this rule, allotment of
the house to such employee shall be cancelled immediately without any notice, and
disciplinary action may be initiated.
vii. In deserving cases, permission may be given by the Director to a bachelor employee to
share the house allotted to him with other bachelors employed at IIM Raipur. None of such
employees shall be entitled to HRA.
viii. The allottee may entertain guests in his/her house for a period not exceeding three months.
If, however, the period exceeds three months, specific approval from the Director needs to
be obtained. This restriction will not apply in the case of domestic servants.
ix. The liability for rent shall commence from the date of occupation of the residence.
x. The employee to whom the house is allotted shall be personally responsible for the license
fee thereof and for any damage beyond fair wear and tear caused thereto or to services
provided therein during the period for which the house is under his/her possession.
xi. The employee to whom the house has been allotted shall take possession of the house from

114

the concerned department of the Institute. Likewise, at the time of vacating the house,
he/she shall hand over the house to the concerned department from where the allotment is
made.
xii. An allottee shall not use the house for any purpose except for residing with his/her family
and shall maintain the premises and the compound, if any, attached thereto, in a clean and
hygienic condition.
xiii. There shall be no improper use of any allotted house. For the purpose of this rule, ‘improper
use’ shall include the following:
xiv. Unauthorized addition to/or alteration of any part of the house or premises.
xv. Using the house/premises or a portion thereof for purposes other than strictly residential
purposes;
xvi. Unauthorized extension from electricity and water supply and other service connections or
tampering therewith.
xvii. Using the house or any portion in such a way as to be a nuisance to, or as to offend others living
on the campus, or using the house in such a way as to detract from the appearance of the campus.
xviii. No cattle and poultry shall be kept in the house or the compound of the house.
xix. No inflammable materials except cooking gas should be stored in the houses
xx. Any improper use of a house could lead to a cancellation of the allotment. If the residents use the
house for any commercial activity, the allotment will be cancelled, possession of the house will
be taken over by the Institute forthwith, and disciplinary action may be initiated.
xxi. The allottee shall allow the Estate Staff of the Institute or the workers of authorized contractors
to have access to the house at all reasonable hours to inspect the building, the water supply,
sanitary or electricity installation, fixtures, and furniture and to carry out such normal repairs
thereto as the Estate Officer may consider necessary for the proper maintenance of the house.
xxii. The allottee should see that no water is wasted by leakage in the water supply fittings or by
careless or extravagant use by the occupants, and shall forthwith report to the Estate Staff any
damage to or defect in the building, fixtures and fittings, electrical installations or fencing and
gates for necessary action.
xxiii. Any incidence of infectious disease in the house must immediately be reported to the Medical
Officer/Chief Administrative Officer/ A ppropriate administrative authority of the Institute, and
all precautions must be taken to prevent the spread of the infection.
xxiv. The allottee will be responsible for all residents of the house, including servants abiding by
these rules.
xxv. The license fee payable by an employee for any type of campus house occupied by him/her is
decided by the Institute from time to time. There will be additional charges for actual
electricity consumption and services like conservancy, water supply, road and street lighting,
government education cess, municipal tax, etc. These charges will be deducted from the salaries
of the occupants each month as per prevailing GOI Rules.
xxvi. On any question of interpretation of these rules, the Director’s decision will be final.
xxvii. The Institute shall have the authority to modify these rules at any time.

19.2 Occupation of Campus House beyond the Date of Retirement:

One year prior to the actual superannuation of an employee, he/she should be informed, in writing, by
the Chief Administrative Officer/Appropriate administrative authority, as the case may be, o f the
impending retirement and the necessary formalities to be completed before the retirement. One should

115

plan for a timely vacation from the campus houses. In case one wants to stay in the Institute house
beyond the permissible period of two months and is granted permission by the Competent Authority,
the damage rent will be assessed as per the criteria set out by the Directorate of Estate, Government of India,
vide their letter No. 3-15/2001 Bldg. dated 16th January 2003.

No retention beyond six months will be allowed.

i. An employee otherwise entitled to use the Institute telephone facility in his/her residence
may be allowed to use the telephone facility only up to two months after retirement.
ii. In the case of an allottee on resignation, dismissal or removal, the Institute telephone facility
would be withdrawn on his last working day in the Institute without prior intimation.
iii. The Institute would write to the superannuating employees one year in advance about their
impending retirement and the formalities they are supposed to complete for getting the retirement
benefits like EPF/Pension/Gratuity etc. They may also be informed about the norms for keeping
the campus accommodation beyond the superannuation period i f they occupy such houses.
Employees who wish to stay in the Institute houses beyond the superannuation date should write to
Chief Administrative Officer/Appropriate administrative authority quite well in advance.

The retirement benefits such as gratuity, leave salary etc., should be paid to a superannuated employee only on
the vacation from the Institute house. The charges for overstay will be recovered from the retirement dues.

116

20. Disciplinary Rules

Disciplinary Rules will be as per the Government of India CCS/CCA Rules 1965 on Mutatis Mutandis basis

Faculty / Non-Faculty Appointing
Authority
Disciplinary
Authority
Appellate Authority
Faculty Director Director Chairperson, HR Committee
Second Appeal to the
Chairperson, BoG
Non-Faculty
Group ‘A’ Staff Director Director Chairperson, HR Committee
Second Appeal to the
Chairperson, BoG
Group ‘B’ Staff and
below
CAO CAO Director
Second Appeal to Chairperson,
HR Committee

117

21. Rules of Resignation & Retirement

Resignation should be clear and unconditional. It should be submitted to the Appointing Authority in
respect of the service or post in question who is competent to accept it. Resignation from service will b e
accepted straightaway, except:

(a) When the faculty/officer concerned is engaged in work of importance, alternative arrangements for
filling up the post may take time.
(b) Officials against whom inquiry/investigation is pending (whether under suspension or not).

In cases covered by (a), resignation should be accepted only when alternative arrangements have been
made. In cases covered by (b), the resignation will not be accepted if it is in the public interest to pursue
the disciplinary case. The Competent Authority may, however, accept the resignation-

(i) If the case does not involve moral turpitude and public claims, or
(ii) if the available evidence does not have a base strong enough to lead eventually to dismissal or
removal from service, or
(iii) if the further pursuit of the case may get so protracted as to render acceptance of resignation cheaper
for the exchequer.
Acceptance of resignation in cases at (b) above is subject to prior approval of BoG in respect of Groups 'A'
and 'B' and Director in respect of Group 'C' employees.

Resignation should not be accepted until all the departmental dues are fully adjusted.

The accepting authority will decide the date from which the resignation should become effective.

A resignation becomes effective not merely when it is accepted by the authority concerned but only when
the officer is actually relieved of his duties. An official quitting his post before receiving intimation of
acceptance of his resignation is liable to proceed against both legally and departmentally.

When a faculty/staff applies for a post in the same or another department through a proper channel,
and on selection, he is asked to resign the previous post for administrative reasons-

• the resignation will be treated as a "technical formality."
• the benefit of past service, if otherwise admissible under the rules , will be allowed for purposes of
fixation of pay in the new post;
• leave at credit will be carried forward; and

Withdrawal of resignation in the following circumstances

• Before acceptance - The resignation will be deemed to have been automatically withdrawn, and there
is no question of accepting the resignation.

• After acceptance, but before relief - Withdrawal should normally be accepted. If rejected, grounds for
such rejection should be recorded and intimated to the concerned faculty/staff.
• After relief (i.e., after it became effective ),- The Appointing Authority may permit withdrawal in the
case of permanent employees subject to the following conditions.

118

• The concerned faculty / /staff tendered the resignation for some compelling reasons which did not
involve any reflection on his integrity, efficiency or conduct.
• The withdrawal request has been made due to a material change in the circumstances that originally
compelled him to tender the resignation.
• The resignation was not tendered with a view to take up an appointment in a private commercial
company or under a corporation, company, body, controlled or financed by the Government.
• The period of absence from duty between relief on resignation and resumption of duty is not more
than 90 days.
• In exceptional cases, BoG will entertain any request to relax the limit of 90 days.

21.1 Superannuation Benefits:

Upon attaining the age of superannuation, employees of Academic & Non -academic positions are
entitled to the following superannuation benefits:

(a) Gratuity:
• The employees of the Institute are entitled to the Gratuity after completion of 5 years of
continuous qualifying service as per Central Government Rules applicable to IIMs.
• The Gratuity admission shall be equal to one-fourth of the emoluments for each completed six
monthly period s of qualifying service subject to Maximum benefit of 16 -1/2 times of the
emoluments (i.e. Basic plus AGP / GP _ DA) or Rs. 10.00 lacs, whichever is less.
• Gratuity payable will be computed on the basis of the Rule of 26 days in a month.

(b) Leave Encashment:
• Encashment of earned leave at the time of retirement subject to a maximum of 300 days
calculated on the basis of basic pay AGP / GP + DA.
• In case of resignation, the leave encashment will be for half of the number of days earned leave
accumulated at the staff's credit, a maximum of 150 days. Entitled only after completion of 2
years of continuous service on the basis of basic pay + AGP / GP + DA.

119

22. New Pension Scheme

The government of India had initiated Contributory Pension Scheme for the employees' w.e.f 01 Jan
2004. The scheme is applicable to all government employees except the three defence forces. The
existing provisions of Defined Benefit Pension and GPF would not be available to new Government
servants joining Government service on or after 01 Jan 2004.

The new pension scheme will work on a defined contribution basis and have two tiers, Tier-I and Tier-II.
Contribution to Tier-I is mandatory for all Government servants joining Government service on or after 01
Jan 2004, whereas Tier -II will be optional an d at the discretion of Government servants. Tier -I (Pension
Account) and Tier-II (Savings Account) will be pure retirement savings products, the only distinction being
that Tier -I is a non - withdrawable account while Tier -II is a withdrawable account to meet financial
contingencies.

In order to implement the Scheme, there will be a Central Record Keeping Agency and several Pension Fund
Managers to offer three categories of Schemes to Government servants, viz. options A, B and C, based on
the ratio of investment in fixed income instruments and equities. An independent Pension Fund Regulatory
and Development Authority (PFRDA) will regulate and develop the pension market.

The Salient features of the Tier-I and Tier-II are as follows:

22.1 Key features of Tier-I Account

a. In Tier-I, Government servants will have to make a contribution of 10% of their basic pay (i.e.
pay in the pay band plus grade pay) plus Dearness Allowance, which will be deducted from their
salary every month by the Pay and Account Offices (PAO) concerned. The Government will make
an equal contribution . Tier-I contributions (and the investment returns) will be kept in a nonwithdrawable Pension Tier-I Account.

b. A Government servant can exit at or after the age of 60 years from the Tier-I of the scheme.
At t h e exit, it would be mandatory for him to invest 40% of pension wealth to purchase an
annuity (from an Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) regulated Life
Insurance Company), which will provide a pension for the lifetime of the employee and his
dependent parents/spouse. In the case of Government servants who leave the Scheme before attaining
the age of 60, the mandatory annuitization would be 80% of the pension wealth.

22.2 Minimum contribution requirements:

(a) Minimum contribution at the time of account opening - Rs. 1000/-
(b) Minimum amount per contribution - Rs. 250/-
(c)
(d)
Minimum Account Balance at the end of FY
Minimum number of contributions in a year
- Rs. 2000/-
- 4
(Minimum One contribution in case a subscriber joins in the last quarter)
The penalty of Rs. 100/- to be levied on the subscriber for not maintaining the minimum account balance
and/or not making the minimum number of contributions.

22.3 Charge Structure for PoPs:

(a) New account opening charges (Tier-I & II both) - Rs. 40/-
(b) Tier-II activation for existing subscribers of Tier-I - Rs. 20/-

120

No deductions will be made towards GPF contributions from the Institute employees as the GPF scheme
is no longer applicable.

121

23. Gratuity and Leave Encashment Policy

As laid down in GoI Rules, including various amendments made by DoPT through its office memorandums
from time to time, the minimum qualifying service for leave encashment and gratuity may be kept as two
years, and five years respectively. The other provisions may be kept the same as issued by GoI on Mutatis
Mutandis basis.

122

24. Grievance Redressal

24.1 Faculty Grievance Redressal

Faculty Grievance Redressal Cell (FGRC) shall consist of four members with the Director as Chairperson,
two members from HR Committee, and one Dean / Senior Faculty Member.

Faculty members are advised to approach this committee for grievance (with regard to service matters)
redressal, if any. After receiving a representation, the cell may hear the faculty in person or decide his/her
representation in accordance with the rules applicable and attempt to address the redressal within 30
working days.

• If unsatisfied, the aggrieved faculty member may make a final appeal to the BoG.
• Grievances related to any of the members of the FGRC will be referred to the HR Committee of the
BoG directly.
• Depending on the matter under discussion on a case to case basis, if need be, the Director will excuse
himself from the meeting to ensure a fair redressal of the grievances.

24.2 Non-Faculty Grievance Redressal

Non-Faculty having a grievance regarding the service matters or any other allied matter may make a
representation in writing to the CAO for appropriate redressal.

Non-Faculty Grievance Redressal Cell (NFGRC) shall comprise Dean as Chairperson, One faculty member
nominated by Director and CAO.

The staff member, who is dissatisfied with the decision of the aforesaid Cell, may make an appeal to the
Director whose decision will be final.

123

25. General Rules:
25.1 Policy on Relocation Allowance

a) Relocation Allowance has two components.

i. Allowance towards travel of the new employee
ii. Allowance towards a movement of personal goods through a commercial carrier

iii. New Employees will be reimbursed an amount up to a single one-way economy class airfare/train fare
depending upon his / her eligibility from the previous place of domicile by the shortest route for self
and dependent family members (spouse, children and parents).

iv. Reimbursement of baggage transfer allowance on the production of relevant vouchers/ receipts as per
IIM Raipur rules. However, if he/she leaves the employment at IIM Raipur due to any reason before
completion of one year, he/she will have to refund the entire money paid towards transfer allowance
and travel charges etc., for self, spouse and dependents.

v. Dislocation allowance @ one month’s of basic pay + GP is payable to a new employee.

b) Submission Guidelines

The following bills can be submitted for reimbursement under the scheme:
• Actual bills/tickets of the journey (original boarding pass in a case by air) of the journey performed
from the previous location to Raipur
• Bills for movement of personal goods from the previous location to Raipur

All the bills must be in the name of an employee. The employee will submit these bills within 60 days
from the date of joining the Institute or within 30 days from the date of receipt of personal goods from
the current location to Raipur.

25.2 Smoking Policy

Smoking in the Institute is prohibited following the order of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India.
Accordingly, a circular is issued by the Institute notifying that smoking is prohibited on the Institute campus
at the following places:

• All rooms in the administration & faculty blocks, including classrooms, office rooms and auditorium.
• Library, Computer Centre, Stores , Xerox Centre, Reception, Telephone Exchange, departmental
Canteen etc.
• Motor Transport Section, vehicles of the Institute, Electric Substation, Recreation Clubs etc.
• All Hostel messes, dining halls
• All lounges, corridors, passages, toilets and open areas
• Any other place accessible to the public

124

• Accordingly, only the residential quarters of employees and the living rooms in the Hostels, Guest
Houses and open spaces around the institute are excluded from the purview of the said notification.

25.3 Administration, Interpretation and Amendments

• The CAO would be the executive authority for the proper administration of these Rules
• In case of any dispute, the CAO will resolve the same, who shall be the Authority for interpretation of
these Rules.
• In case an employee is dissatisfied wit h any decision taken by the CAO , he/she will be permitted to
refer his case to the Director , who shall take steps to resolve the issue. The decision of the Director
shall be final.

25.4 Policy for Overseas Exposure:

• Employees of the Institute in Faculty & Non-Faculty categories shall be encouraged to visit abroad to
understand procedures, systems, and facilities offered by other Institutions and implement some of the
best practices in IIM Raipur upon return.

These Service Rules or any part thereof may be changed or amended from time to time by the Board of
Governors, IIM Raipur.

125

Annexure I
Faculty Recruitment Procedure at IIM Raipur*

1. Introduction

IIM Raipur considers faculty recruitment as one of the top priorities in its endeavor to become a world class
Institute. Every year recruitment process happens once a quarter based on the applications received. We process
applications only for those areas where there is a requirement. The Faculty Recruitment Committee (FRC),
constituted internally, periodically reviews the received applications to shortlist the eligible candidates to be called
for Faculty Recruitment Process (FRP). At the institutional level, a faculty member is recruited for an area/center.

The overall faculty recruitment process can be explained through the flowchart depicted below (complete cycle
time below should be about 8-11 weeks):

Figure 1. Flow diagram of the FRP
* This document is created by faculty members Bhawna Priya, Damini Saini (Committee Head), Kamal K Jain, Nemiraja
Jadiyappa, Rabin Kumar Jana, Ram Kumar Kakani, Yogesh Chauhan, staff members Col. Harindra Tripathi (Retd.) and P.R.
Ajith Kumar.

Initial reply
Screening applications
Suitability
Thank you email
Invitation for FRP
Candidate confirmation
YES
NO
NO
FRP information to be sent to
candidate seeking travel plan,
CV, seminar title & abstract
along with the publications
Itinerary to be sent to the
candidate from the Dean’s office
Campus visit (2 days):
Area interaction (day 1)
Seminar & Interview
(day 2)
YES
Application submission
By Director’s Office(within a week)
By FRC
2 weeks in
advance
(Thank you and regret mail
in case of area saturation)
The Director’s call
Documents
received
Travel plan to the Travel desk
and the Dean’s office
CV, seminar title, abstract
and publication to the
respective Area chairs

126

2. Search for Prospective Candidates

The search for prospective candidates is done in the ways listed below:

• Advertisements are placed on the institution’s website as per the area requirement.
• Letters are written to the leading institutions seeking applications from prospective candidates in the
required areas.
• All the areas should send their requirements to the Dean’s office. Accordingly, information on the current
openings will be updated on the website.

3. Preliminary Assessment and Shortlisting

All the applications will be circulated amongst FRC members. The objective is to shortlist the applications to be
considered for the FRP. Some of the shortlisting criteria include:

• Educational background
• Post Ph.D. experience
• Research activities
• Area requirements
• Any relevant job experiences

Annexure I details the qualifications required for various faculty positions. Annexure II details the template for
application receipt email. Annexure III share the template for regret letter due to non-vacancy. Annexure IV shares
the template for candidates short-listed for faculty recruitment process but found unsuitable by the interview panel.
Annexure V shares the specifics on how an applicant is shortlisted by the FRC.

4. Campus visit, Seminar, and Interview

The objective of the campus visit is to ensure that the committee members get to know more about the candidate’s
research and teaching interests. Also, the visit enables the candidate to know more about the Institute’s faculty
members and campus culture.

As a part of the selection process , a candidate is expected to visit the campus for two days. There are three main
components of the campus visit:
a) Interaction with area members:
This is the first phase of FRP. A candidate will interact with each area member for 15–30 minutes (a
tentative schedule will be made available to the candidate in advance on arrival to the campus). At the end
of this phase, the respective area chair will have a meeting to review the outcome, prepare the final feedback
from the area, and submit it to the Faculty Recruitment Committee (FRC).

127

b) Research seminar:
In the second phase, a candidate is invited to deliver a seminar on a chosen research topic in front of experts,
area and non-area faculty members, research scholars, and research staff. Annexures VI and VII share the
IIM Raipur Faculty Recruitment Seminar Evaluation Form s for the Faculty Members and the Doctoral
Students, respectively. The presentation time is of approximately 30 minutes followed by question answer
round of approximately 15 minutes. A candidate is expected to present his/her research work.
Ground rules to participate in FRS (for faculty and doctoral scholars)

• Ideally, the first preference should be given to the invited members (experts) during the questionanswer round, followed by the area members and all others.

• Respective area chairs are expected to introduce the presenter and moderate the session.

• The participants of the seminar are expected to treat the presenters respectfully.

c) Interview:
In the third and final phase, a candidate must face an interview committee consisting of two external
members, at least one board member, and the Director. Annexure VIII shares the IIM Raipur Faculty
Recruitment Interview Evaluation Form by the Interview Panel.

5. Assessment and Recommendation

The assessment process includes a comprehensive analysis of the externals’ reports, area’s feedback, and faculty
members' feedback who attend the candidate’s seminar. All the assessments are then put together to judge the
suitability of the candidate as a faculty member at the Institute. The recommendation is compiled by the Director
and shared to the FRC. In selected cases, alternate offers can also be made (e.g., as postdoctoral fellow).

6. Recruitment

The FRC takes the final call on the candidate's suitability to be appointed as a faculty member at the Institute. The
Director decides the salary of the candidate based on the standard practices as per the internal policies of IIM
Raipur. The standard rules at the Institute drive the decisions taken at various stages of the selection process.

For further information 2 one may contact facultyrecruitment@iimraipur.ac.in

2 Casual and/or repetitive inquiries need not be responded.

128

Annexure I (a)
Qualifications for Various Faculty Positions

Candidates should have a demonstrated ability to make relevant intellectual contribution s to experienced and
potential managers through teaching, training, research , and published work. Candidates should have a strong
academic background and understanding of current developments in the related field. Faculty members are expected
to carry out research, design and teach courses, engage in institution development, and conduct training programs
and consultancy.

Minimum Qualification (for all faculty positions): Ph.D. in an appropriate branch with first class or equivalent (in
terms of grades, etc.) at the preceding degree, with an 3excellent academic record throughout. In addition, for:
Professor: Minimum 10 years teaching/research/industrial experience, of which at least 4 years should be at the
level of Associate Professor in IITs, IIMs, NITIE, IISc Bangalore, NITIE Mumbai, and IISERs or at an equivalent
level in any such other Indian or foreign institution/institutions of comparable standards.
Associate Professor: Minimum 6 years of teaching/research/industrial experience, of which at least 3 years
should be at the level of Assistant Professor or equivalent.
Assistant Professor: Minimum 3 years of teaching/research/industrial experience (excluding the period of doing
a Ph.D.). A 4fresh Ph.D. may be considered for the position on a contractual basis.

3 As an indicator of good academic record, it is suggested that candidates may preferably have first class,
however, should have a minimum of 55 percent marks at every stage of their academic career.
4 PhD status should be awarded at the time of seminar process.

129

Annexure I (b)
Application Receipt Email

Application Number: XXXXYY

Greetings from IIM Raipur !!

You have successfully applied for the job Rolling Advertisement/Special Recruitment for the Faculty Position. As
and when the Faculty Recruitment Committee screens your application, we will get back to you.

Thanks for showing your interest in IIM Raipur.

Yours sincerely,
Recruitment Cell
Indian Institute of Management Raipur
Raipur - 493661, India

130

Annexure I (c)
Regret Letter Format Due to No Open Positions
(in case of No open position)

Application Number: XXXXYY

Greetings from IIM Raipur !!

Thank you for applying to IIM Raipur. Unfortunately, at this time, we do not have any open position which could
match your profile and interests.

Thanks for showing your interest in IIM Raipur.

Best wishes for your future endeavours!

Yours sincerely,
Recruitment Cell
Indian Institute of Management Raipur
Raipur - 493661, India

131

Annexure I (d)
Regret Letter To Non-Selected Invited Candidates After the Seminar Process

Greetings from IIM Raipur !!

This is with respect to your attending faculty recruitment seminar during ..date-month-year. at IIM Raipur.

We thank you for taking out your valuable time with us. Unfortunately, at this point in time, your application does
not fit our requirements (as decided by the Selection Committee).

We wish you the best for your future endeavours.

Thank you very much.

Director
IIM Raipur

132

Annexure I (e)
Applications Screening and Short-Listing Criteria by the FRC

The faculty recruitment committee decides to include the following four criteria for shortlisting:
a. Academic Attainment (AA)
b. Academic Experience (AE)
c. Industry Experience (IE)
d. Research/ Publications (Res)
e. Match with the Area Requirements (AR)

• For measuring Academic Attainment, latest NIRF rankings shall form the basis for all the teaching
positions.
(a) Ph.D. from IITs, IIMs, NITIE Mumbai, IISc Bangalore, IISERs or equivalent, and the top
20 NIRF ranking institutes shall be considered highly acceptable
(b) Ph.D. from 21-30 NIRF ranking institutes shall be considered Acceptable
(c) Ph.D. from 31-60 NIRF ranking institutes Somewhat Acceptable
(d) Ph.D. from institutes with >60 NIRF ranking shall be considered Not Acceptable

• For measuring Academic Experience, only Post-Ph.D. experience was considered. The experience can
be academic, research, or professional/ industry. For relevance, scrutiny of the work profile shall be
undertaken. For Professor and Associate Professor, a minimum of ten - and six years post Ph.D.
experience, respectively, from IITs, IIMs, NITIE Mumbai, IISc Bangalore, IISERs, or an equivalent
level in any such other Indian or foreign institution/institutions of comparable standards is must. For
work/professional experience, latest NIRF ranking shall be considered. The following evaluation
pattern shall be applied.
(a) Experience in IITs, IIMs, NITIE Mumbai, IISc Bangalore, IISERs or equivalent, shall be
considered Highly Relevant
(b) Experience in an institution with NIRF ranking 1-20 shall be considered Highly Relevant
(4)
(c) Experience in an institution with a NIRF ranking of 21-30 shall be Relevant (3)
(d) Experience in an institution with a NIRF ranking of 31-60 shall be Somewhat Relevant (2)
(e) Experience in an institution with a NIRF ranking of 61 or above shall be Not Relevant (1)
(f) No experience: (0)

▪ For the Professor position, a candidate must have a minimum period of four years at Associate
Professor level from IITs, IIMs, NITIE Mumbai, IISc Bangalore, and IISERs or at an
equivalent level in any such other Indian or foreign institution/institutions of comparable
standards is essential. Similarly, for the Associate Professor position, a candidate must have a
minimum period of three years at the Assistant Professor level is essential.

133

▪ Candidates (with or without a Ph.D. degree) with experience at the top management levels
(General manager and above positions) are given importance and automatically shortlisted for
the next level, i.e., seminar and interview. For the scoring purpose in industry experience, the
following criteria used
1. Minimum two years of experience at top management level (general manager and above):
4
2. Minimum two years of experience at middle management level (AGM and DGM): 3
3. Minimum two years of experience at a lower management level (Assistant
Manager/Manager): 2
4. Any other: 1
5. No industry experience:0

▪ Fresh Ph.D. / FPM with / without Post -Ph.D. experience are considered for visiting Assistant
Professor / Assistant Professor Grade-II position. In addition, the candidate who has completed
the internal thesis defence is also considered for Visiting Assistant Professor.
▪ Regarding Research/ Publications, it is decided to use the classified list of ABDC and ABS.
The points are calculated based on the ABDC classification (FT50 -2.5; A* - 2.0; A - 1.5 and
B - 1.0). Candidates who have applied for an assistant professor post with at least one FT -50
or A* publication are shortlisted automatically for seminar and interview. For other posts,
publication score calculation is given below (for no publications, zero score is awarded):

Scores Assistant Professor Associate Professor
Inadequate Less than 2
(Research points up to 1.999)
Less than 4
(Research points up to 3.999)
Somewhat
adequate
2
(Research points from 2 to
2.999)
4
(Research points from 4 to
4.999)
Adequate 3
(Research points from 3 to
3.999)
5
(Research points from 5 to
5.999)
Highly adequate 4 or more
(Research points 4 and above)
6 or more
(Research points 6 and above)

▪ For research publication, only publications related to the domain applied for (PhD. thesis in
the case of fresh PhD.) shall be considered.

• The following candidates will not be considered for shortlisting
(i) Had worked previously and resigned (in the last three years), or
(ii) Had participated in the faculty seminar process but did not join us after receiving the offer
(in the last three years), or

134

(iii) Were absent from their earlier faculty seminar invitation after earlier confirmation to a
formal invite (in the last three years)
• A candidate shall be considered for Assistant Professor Grade -I, Associate Professor, and
Professor if they have at least 1, 2, and 3 ABDC A -category (or 3 or more in ABS) journal
publication(s).

• Faculty applications for academic departments with no current vacancy are not considered for
shortlisting unless the candidate has vast industry experience in important positions and has the
potential to add significant value to the institution

• Keeping all else equal, preference is given to candidates from the reserved categories

• The scoring for “match with the area” components are given by considering the area requirements:
(a) A score of 4 shall be considered Highly Acceptable
(b) A score of 3 shall be considered Acceptable
(c) A score of 2 shall be considered Somewhat Acceptable
(d) A score of 1 shall be considered Not Acceptable

All the rejected candidate applications by the FRC in the above process are checked by the Director for
any possible reversal of decision. In such cases, rationale for reversal (and subsequent shortlisting) is to
be documented on official records by the Director.

135

Annexure I (f)
IIM Raipur Faculty Recruitment Seminar Evaluation Form for FACULTY MEMBERS

Your Name: Click here to enter text. Date of
Interview: Click here to enter text.
Candidate
Name: Click here to enter text. Area: Click here to enter text.
Please take a few minutes to complete this evaluation form and return it to the Dean Academics at the end
of the candidate seminar/presentation. Your input is very important in helping us assess the candidate as a
teacher, scholar and researcher, and member of the faculty.
Note: If you are unable to evaluate on certain criteria (s) then leave them BLANK! i.e., do not give any
Rating.
What are the candidates Major Strengths and
Weaknesses? ➔

Strengths

Weaknesses

Scale
:
5 – Strongly
Agree 4 – Agree 3 – Average 2 – Disagree 1 – Strongly Disagree

Rating
5 4 3 2 1
The candidate is developing a solid foundation of research and scholarship.
Comments: Click here to enter text.
☐ ☐ ☐ ☐ ☐
The candidate would have a dynamic presence in the classroom (including
adult learning pedagogy and digital medium of communication).
Comments: Click here to enter text.
☐ ☐ ☐ ☐ ☐
The candidate appears interested in students and their learning.
Comments: Click here to enter text.
☐ ☐ ☐ ☐ ☐
The candidate would work well with the Dean, IIM Raipur faculty, and the
broader IIM Raipur community.
Comments: Click here to enter text.
☐ ☐ ☐ ☐ ☐
I would like this person as a faculty/colleague.
Comments: Click here to enter text.
☐ ☐ ☐ ☐ ☐
Other Comments: Click here to enter text.

[Your Signature]

136

Annexure I (g)
IIM Raipur Faculty Recruitment Seminar Evaluation Form for DOCTORAL STUDENTS

Your Name: Click here to enter text. Date of
Interview: Click here to enter text.
Candidate
Name: Click here to enter text. Area: Click here to enter text.
Please take a few minutes to complete this evaluation form and return it to the Dean Academics at the
end of the candidate seminar/presentation. Your input is very important in helping us assess the candidate
as a teacher, scholar and researcher, and member of the faculty.
Note: If you are unable to evaluate on certain criteria(s) then leave them BLANK! i.e., do not give any
Rating.
Scale
:
5 – Strongly
Agree 4 – Agree 3 – Average 2 – Disagree 1 – Strongly Disagree

Rating
5 4 3 2 1
The candidate is developing a solid foundation of research and
scholarship.
Comments: Click here to enter text.
☐ ☐ ☐ ☐ ☐
The candidate is able to handle (tough) questions.
Comments: Click here to enter text.
☐ ☐ ☐ ☐ ☐
The candidate would have a dynamic presence in the classroom.
Comments: Click here to enter text.
☐ ☐ ☐ ☐ ☐
Other Comments: Click here to enter text.

[Your Signature]

137

Annexure I (h)
IIM Raipur Faculty Recruitment Interview Evaluation Form for PANEL MEMBERS
Interviewer: Click here to enter text. Date of
Interview: 0
Candidate
Name: Click here to enter text. Area &
Position: Click here to enter text.
Interview evaluation forms are to be completed by the interviewer to rank the candidate’s overall
qualifications for the position for which they have applied. The numerical rating system is based on the
scale below.
Scale: 5 – Exceptional 4 – Above Average 3 – Average 2 – Satisfactory 1 –
Unsatisfactory
Rating
5 4 3 2 1
Technical Qualifications/Experience – Does the candidate have the
appropriate educational qualifications and/or past work experiences and/or
technical skills necessary for this position?
Comments: Click here to enter text.
☐ ☐ ☐ ☐ ☐
Communication – How were the candidate’s communication skills during the
interview?
Comments: Click here to enter text.
☐ ☐ ☐ ☐ ☐
Initiative – Did the candidate demonstrate, through their answers, a high
degree of initiative and consciousness to be part of a premier management
institution that inspires thought leadership through scholarship and teaching?
Comments: Click here to enter text.
☐ ☐ ☐ ☐ ☐
Overall Impression and Recommendation – Summary of your
perceptions of the candidate’s strengths/weaknesses. Final comments
and recommendations for proceeding with the candidate.
Comments: Click here to enter text.
Offer
Offer with
reservation
s
Do not
advan
ce
☐ ☐ ☐

[Your Signature]

138

Annexure II

Indian Institute of Management Raipur
Atal Nagar, P. O. - Kurru (Abhanpur), Raipur (C.G.) 493 661
Phone: 0771 2474600, 2474603 Email: facultyrecruitment@iimraipur.ac.in

Application Form

Affix your Passport
Size Photograph here

Post Applied for: Area of Specialization:

Did you previous applied for any post in this Institute? If yes, please provide details

1. Personal Information
Full Name Date of Birth
Nationality Gender
Email Marital Status
Cell / Phone No. Category
Whether EWS or Not (If yes, attach valid certificate)
Permanent Address

Mailing Address
2. Qualifications:
A Education Qualifications:
Degree From To University & College Percentage / Grade
Ph.D. / FPM
Class 12

139

Class 10
Thesis title of your FPM /
Ph.D. equivalent

B Professional Qualifications (CA, CFA etc.):
Exam Year University / Institutions Percentage /
Grade

3. Experience:
Teaching Experience (Please list the courses taught at different levels)
Sl. # Year Title of the
Course
PGP/Ph.D./FPM Core or
Elective
No. of
Students
Students’ overall
rating of teaching
faculty
A Post Graduate Level:

B Executive Education: (List courses or programmes of which you have been Course / Programme)
Sl. # Year Name of the
programme
Programme Director(s) Duration
(days)
No. of
Participants

Total teaching experience (Yrs.) -
C Students supervised for M.Phil. / Ph.D./ FPM Programmes
Sl. # Year No. of students who have
completed their dissertations –
Direct supervisor

No. of students who have completed
their dissertations – Member of thesis
committee

140

D Full time Work Experience (in reverse chronological order)
Sl. No. Name of the Employer Period of Service Position/
Designation
Scale of Pay &
Basic Pay
Reason
for
leaving
From To

4. Scholarly achievements:
A Publications: Kindly provide list of scholarly publications in refereed academic journals
Sl. # Date &
Year
Title Where published ABS/FT50 ABDC
Category
1.
2.
3.
List of articles published in popular magazines or newspapers over etc.
Sl. # Date and
Year
Title Where published

B Participation in scholarly presentations in national and international conferences over the past 5
years:

Sl. # Date &
Year
Title of conference / institution Title of paper / presentation (if made)

5. Research Projects: List the projects that you have been engaged:
Sl. # Client’s name Nature of the project Duration of project Amount of grant
(Rs.)

6. Consulting Experience:

141

List key consulting assignments undertaken.:

Sl. #

Client’s name Title of assignment Value of Assignment Duration

7. Public Profile

A. Significant recognition by learned societies or professional associations for demonstrated
achievement or leadership in your discipline or professional area.

• Awards:

• Membership in Professional Societies:

• Achievements:

8. Name the Subjects / Courses (Core/ Elective) you are interested in teaching:
a.
b.
c.
d.

9. Any other information you may wish to add:

10. Professional References (Two)

Name:
Designation:
Name:
Designation:

142

Organization:

Official E-mail:

Mobile:

Organization:

Official E-mail:

Mobile:

Declaration:

I declare that the foregoing information is correct and complete to the best of my knowledge and belief
and nothing has been concealed/ distorted. If I am found to have concealed/distorted any material
information, my application shall be liable to summarily termination without any notice. If offered
appointment, I will join on specified date and subsequently take up IIM Raipur’s assignment anywhere as
and when required.

Signature of the Candidate
Date:
Place:

143

Annexure III

Indian Institute of Management Raipur

Application Screening Summary Sheet for Faculty Position

1. Reference No.
2. Post Applied For
3. Area
4. Name of the Candidate
5. Date of Birth
6. Category
7. Qualifications

8. Post PhD. Experience
9. Total Experience
10. No. of Publications (excluding conference proceedings
11. No. of Conference/Seminar Proceedings
12. No. of Candidates being supervised for PhD.
13. Any other information
14. Shortlisted Yes No

Signature of Screening Committee Members
Date:

144

Annexure IV
Brief Resume about the Faculty Candidate
1. Name

2. Date of Birth

3. Post Applied for:

4. Present Position & Organization

5. Qualifications:

Examination Year of Passing Institutions / University Grade / Marks
PhD.
Post-Graduation
Graduation
12th
10th
6. Name of the PhD. / Post Graduation Project Topic

7. A number of papers published in refereed
national/international journals.

8. Details of best three papers published (Authors,
Paper Title, Journal, Vol. No. pp. Year of
Publications).

9. PhD. Supervisor

10. Number of Cases (and Teaching Notes)

11. Subjects taught at P.G. Level
Name of subject No. of Students Feedback
a.
b.
c.
12. Whether Conducted MDP / Consulting
YES / NO
If Yes, please give details
13. Two references

145

Name :
Designation :
Organization
Address
Email Address:
Mobile No.
Name :
Designation :
Organization
Address
Email Address:
Mobile No.

Signature of the Candidate

146

Annexure V
Indian Institute of Management Raipur

Letter of Recommendation

My research scholar My colleagues

My personal friend or acquaintance Other (please specify)

2. Please write the Strengths of the candidate
3. Please write Weaknesses of the candidate
4. Compared with a typical group of students I have encountered at th is Institution , I would rank
him/her as indicated below (please tick as appropriate):

Category Excellent Very
good
Good Fair Poor No Basis
for
Academic Contributions
Research Contributions
Institutional building
Teamwork
Attitude, Behavior and General
Conduct

Motivation
Overall rating

5. Comment on the candidate’s suitability for faculty position (please use additional sheets if necessary):

147

Annexure VI
Indian Institute of Management Raipur

Annual Faculty Self-Performance Appraisal Form

Please provide details of work done since the last appraisal/date of joining IIM Raipur

A. Teaching Feedback (both Quantitative & Qualitative) in PGP/PGPWE/FPM/EFPM (Please enclose supporting
documents)
Sl.
No.
Course Core/
Elective
Program
me (with
batch)
No. of
Students
(With no.
of sections)
Teaching
Feedback

B. FPM/EFPM/Ph.D. Guided (Please enclose supporting documents)
Sl.
No.
Research Topic Students Name University/ Cosupervisor
Year of Award of
Degree

C. Research Projects Completed (Please enclose supporting documents)
Sl.
No.
Research Project Co-Researcher Research Funded
by
Total Funding
Amount
Output of Research

D. Books Published (please enclose details of only New Books published)
Sl.
No.
Name of Books Co-authors Publishers Year of
Publication
Whether this is a
new book/new
edition or reprint

E. Research Papers Published in Referred Journals (Please enclose a copy of the research papers published)
Sl.
No.
Paper Title Coauthors
Name of Journals Journal
Category
Vol, No. Pages Year of
Publication

F. Cases & Teaching Notes Published in Referred Journals (Please enclose a copy of Cases & Teaching Notes
published)
Sl.
No.
Paper Title Co-authors Name of Journals Vol, No. Pages Year of
Publication

148

G. Training Programmes

Open MDP organised at IIM Raipur (As Programme Director)
Sl.
No.
Title Dates/
Duration
No. of
Participants
Programme
Directors
Average
Teaching
Feedback in
MDP

In-Company MDP organised at IIM Raipur (As Programme Director)
Sl.
No.
Title Dates/
Duration
No. of
Participants
Programme
Directors
Average
Teaching
Feedback in
MDP

H. Consulting Projects Completed at IIM Raipur
Sl.
No.
Details of Consulting Project/ Client Value of
Consulting
No. of
Consulting
Days
Clients’ Feedback

I. Conferences/Seminars Organised at IIM Raipur
Sl.
No.
Theme of
Conference
Co-Chairs Dates/
Venue
No. of Delegates

J. Institution Building at IIM Raipur
Sl.
No.
Position held From - To Contributions Made

K. Any significant achievement not specified above
Sl.
No.
Significant Achievement

149

Indian Institute of Management Raipur

Annual Faculty Performance Appraisal - Criteria

Performance Asssessment

Area of work Criteria 1 2 3 4 5
Teaching (PGP, EPGP,
and Doctoral
Programmes)
(Weightage 40%)
Average
feedback in
PGP, EPGP,
and FPM (out
of 5)
Less
than 3
3 – 3.5 3.5 – 4 4 – 4.5 4.5 and
above
Research (through
Publication, Conference
and Projects)
(Weightage 40%)
Points earned Upto
10
11 - 20 21 - 30 30 -40 Above 40
Contribution to
Institution Building –
based on points earned
from administrative
activities
(Weightage 5%)
Points earned Upto
10
11-20 21-30 31-40 Above 40
Training MDPs, InCompany, and elearning courses
excluding e-PGP
(Weightage 5%)
Number of
sessions
Upto
10
11-20 21-30 31-40 Above 40
Citizenship,
contribution through
service, social capital
and showcasing
professional integrity.
This will include the
attendance and active
involvement and
participation in various
events organized by the
Institute from time to
time. (Weightage 10%)
To be decided
by the FRC

Out of a maximum possible score of 100, the rating will be assigned as follows:
Less than 50 – Poor
50-60 – Average
60-70 – Good
70-80 Very Good
80 and above - Excellent

150

Expected level of performance is “Very Good”. Based on the evaluation of faculty members, the Director will
recommend to the Chairperson, BoG/Board to confirm their services, extend their probation, or dispense with their
services.

151

Annexure VII
Indian Institute of Management Raipur
Annual Work Plan for Faculty

A. Teaching in Long Duration Programmes
PLAN ACTUAL
Sl
.
N
o.
Course Core/
Electi
ve
Cla
ss
Cre
dit
Approx
. No. of
Studen
ts
No.
of
Secti
on
Ter
m
Half Yearly Yearly
C/P/
N*
Remarks C/P/
N*
Remarks
1.
2.
3.

B. FPM/EFPM/Ph.D. Guidance
PLAN ACTUAL
Sl.
No.
Research Topic Students Name University/ Co-supervisor Status Half Yearly Yearly
C/P/N* Remarks C/P/N* Remarks
1.
2.
3.

C. Research
PLAN ACTUAL
Sl.
N
o.
Research Project/ Topic Co-Researcher Funding Agency / Total
Fund
Status Half Yearly Yearly
C/P
/N*
Remarks C/P/
N*
Remarks
1.
2.
3.
* C – Completed; P – Partly Completed; N – Not started

D. Publications Books
PLAN ACTUAL
Sl.
N
o.
Name of Books Co-authors Publishers Expected
Date of
Publication
s
Half Yearly Yearly
C/P/
N*
Remarks C/P/
N*
Remarks
1.
2.
3.

Papers in Referred Journals
PLAN ACTUAL
Sl.
No.
Paper Title Co-authors Journals / Ranking Expected
Date of
Publications
Half Yearly Yearly
C/P/N* Remarks C/P/N* Remarks
1.
2.
3.

Cases and Teaching Notes

152

PLAN ACTUAL
Sl.
No.
Case Title Co-authors Journals/ Ranking Expected
Date of
Publications
Half Yearly Yearly
C/P/N* Remarks C/P/N* Remarks
1.
2.
3.

Papers in Refereed Conference
PLAN ACTUAL
Sl.
N
o.
Paper Title Co-authors Conference Details Date of
Conferen
ce
Half Yearly Yearly
C/P/
N*
Remarks C/P/
N*
Remarks
1.
2.
3.

E. Training Programmes
Open MDP (As Programme Director)
PLAN ACTUAL
Sl.
N
o.
Title Dates/ Duration Approx.
No. of
Participa
nts
Programme
Directors
Half Yearly Yearly
C/P/
N*
Remarks C/P
/N*
Remarks
1.
2.

In-Company MDP (As Programme Director)
PLAN ACTUAL
Sl.
N
o.
Title Dates/ Duration Approx.
No. of
Participa
nts
Programme
Directors
Half Yearly Yearly
C/P/
N*
Remarks C/P/
N*
Remarks
1.
2.
3.

F. Consulting
PLAN ACTUAL
Sl.
No. Details of Consulting Project/ Client
Approximate
Value of
Consulting
Approx. No.
of Consulting
Days
Half Yearly Yearly
C/P/N* Remarks C/P/N* Remarks
1
2
3

G. Organizing Conferences/ Seminars
PLAN ACTUAL
Sl.
N
o.
Theme of Conference Co-Chairs Dates/ Venue Approx. No. of
Delegates
Half Yearly Yearly
C/P
/N*
Remarks C/P/
N*
Remarks
1.
2.
3.

H. Self Development:

153

PLAN ACTUAL
S
l.
N
o
.
Activity Remarks Sl.
No
.
Activity Remarks
1
.
1.
2
.
2.

I. Any Other Activity:
PLAN ACTUAL
S
l.
N
o
.
Activity Remarks Sl.
No
.
Activity Remarks
1
.
1.
2
.
2.
3
.
3.

J. Support Required from the Institute, if any:
S
l.
N
o
.
Support Required Remarks Sl.
No
.
Support Provided Remarks
1
.
1.
2
.
2.

154

Annexure VIII
Indian Institute of Management Raipur
Atal Nagar, Naya Raipur, 493361 (CG)

Application Form for Non-Faculty Position

Direction: Use Capital Letters & write clearly. Use separate forms for applying to two or more posts.

A. Personal
Name Mr./Ms. Surname (Family) First Name Middle Name
Sex Date Of Birth
Father’s Name Mr.
Mother’s
Name Ms.
Category Nationality
Religion (For Government Statistical Reports Only)
Parent/
Guardian
Mr./
Ms.
Surname (Family) First Name Middle Name
Emergency Contact
Details
Phone

B. Communication Information
Mailing Address Permanent Address
Address 1
Address 2
Address 3
City/Town
State
Pin
Phone
Mobile
Fax
Email:

C. Academic
Degree/Examination Subjects Name of Institution
& University/Board
Year of
Passing
Marks
%
Class/Division

155

D. Work Experience

Sl.
No
Designation Employer Pay
Scale
Total
Emoluments
p.m. (Rs)
No. of
Years
From To
1
2
3

If required, attach an additional table in the same format. Please Tick: Attachment: Yes/ No

E. Did you represent India or your State in any Game or Sport? Yes/ No

F. Important Awards, patents, Scholarships, prizes and other distinctions obtained.
Name of Award & Institution Year Reason for Award

G. Any other information on why you should be considered for the post:

H. Names & Addresses of two reputed citizens well known to you

Name: Name:
Address: Address:
City: PIN: City: PIN:
Phone: Phone:
Email: Email:

Declaration
I declare that the foregoing information is correct and complete to the best of my knowledge and belief,
and nothing has been concealed/ distorted. If I am found to have concealed/distorted any material
information, my application shall be liable to summarily rejected without any notice. If offered an
appointment, I will join on a specified date and subsequently take up IIM Raipur’s assignment anywhere
as and when required.

Date:
Place: Signature of the Candidate

156

A. Enclosures with the Application Form
1. Proof of Age
2. SC/ST/NC-OBC/DAP-PWD Certificate photocopy, if applicable
3. Photocopies of Degrees & Mark Sheets.
4. Certificate of representing India or State in any Sport or Game
B. Please Note
1. Higher qualification holders will be given preference.
2. Candidates working in the Government/Semi -Government/Public Sector Undertakings
should apply through the proper channel.
3. Only shorted candidates will be called for an interview.
4. No Enquiries on the status of the Application will be entertained
5. Canvassing in any form by the candidate may lead to disqualification.
6. Original Certificates should be produced at the time of the interview.

General
Please write how you can contribute to the IIM in the formative years (not more than 150 words):

Date: Signature

157

Annexure IX
Indian Institute of Management Raipur

Application Screening Summary Sheet

1. Reference No.
2. Post Applied for
3. Name of the Applicant
4. Date of Birth
5. Category
6. Qualifications:

7. Total Experience
8. Summary of experience

9. Proficiency in Computers
10. Any other information
11. Shortlisted Yes No

Signature of Screening Committee Members

Date

158

Annexure X

Indian Institute of Management Raipur

Interview Evaluation Sheet for Non-Faculty Positions

Please indicate a rating on a 5 point scale* on each of the under noted aspects.

Si. No. Attribute Rating
1. Education (relevant to the position)
2. Relevant job experience
3. Depth of work knowledge
4. Problem-solving skills
5. Decision making capability
6. Organising and planning capability
7. Leadership quality and interpersonal skills
8. Communication skill
9. Computer skill
10. Attitude and willingness to take the additional responsibility
Total

* 5 Point Scale - Outstanding: 5, Very Good: 4, Good: 3, Average: 2, Poor: 1

159

Annexure XI
Indian Institute of Management Raipur
Letter of Recommendation

My colleague My students

My personal friend or acquaintance Other (please specify)

2. Please write the strengths of the candidate
3. Please write weaknesses of the candidate
4. Compared with a typical group of colleagues I have encountered at my
organization/institution, I would rank him/her as indicated below (please tick as
appropriate):

Category Excellen
t
Very good Good Fair Poor No Basis for
indication
Institutional building
Teamwork
Attitude
Motivation
Overall rating

5. Kindly comment on the character of the candidate:

6. Comment on the candidate’s suitability for the position (please use additional sheets if
necessary):

160

Annexure XII
Indian Institute of Management Raipur

Annual Staff Performance Appraisal Report

PART – I: Personal Data
(To be filled in by the Administration Department)
1. Name of the employee :
2. Date of joining :
3. Date of Birth :
4. Present Pay Scale & Grade Pay :
5. Date of appointment to the Present
Grade
:
6. Present Post :
7. Date of appointment to the
Present Post
:
8. Period of absence on leave, training during the period under appraisal
Type of leave Period on leave

Period of absence on training during the period under appraisal
Institute Subject / Programme Date from Date to

161

PART – II: Self-Performance Appraisal Form
Name of the
Employee

Position Department
Date of Joining Date of Birth
1. Brief description of your duties:

2. Targets set by you

3 Target achieved to what extent

4 Reasons for non-achieving the targets

5 Please list your achievements

6. Further comments, if any, on the targets/achievements and on additional achievements not
reflected in item 5 above. Also, comment on your own assessment of the quality of work
you have done.

7. How do you rate yourself with regard to institute requirements and your contribution?

8. Please list out your area where you would like to improve your performance.

9. What are your Strengths?

10. What are your Weaknesses?

11. Any other (please specify)

Date :

Place: Signature

162

PART – III: Remarks of the Reporting Authority:

1. Assessment of Personal Attributes: (This assessment should rate the officer vis-à-vis his peers
and not the general population. Grades should be assigned on a scale of 1-5, in whole numbers,
with 1refering to the lowest grade and 5 to the best grade. Weightage to this Section will be
30%)
Sl.
No.
Attribute Reporting
Officer
Reviewing
Authority
Initial of
Reviewing
Authority
a) Attitude to work
b) Sense of responsibility
c) Decision-making ability
d) Initiative
e) Maintenance of discipline, including
punctuality & regularity

f) Communication skills
g) Leadership quality
h) Capacity to work in team spirit including
attitude towards by others

i) Capacity to work within a time limit
j) Inter-personal relations
Grading on ’Personal Attributes+ D + E + F
+ G + H + I +

2. Assessment of work output. Grades should be assigned on a scale of 1 -5, in whole numbers,
with 1refering to the lowest grade and 5 to the best grade. Weightage to this Section will be
40%)
Sl.
No.
Attribute Reporting
Officer
Reviewing
Authority
Initial of
Reviewing
Authority
a) Timely accomplishment of planned
work/work allotted as per subjects allotted

b) Quality of output
c) Analytical ability
d) The accomplishment of exceptional work /
unforeseen tasks performed during the
period

Grading on ’ Work Output’
(A + B + C+ D / 40 X 40)

3. Assessment of Functional Competency. Grades should be assigned on a scale of 1-5, in whole
numbers, with 1 referring to the lowest grade and 5 to the best grade. Weightage to this Section
will be 30%)
Sl.
No.
Attribute Reporting
Offer
Reviewing
Authority
Initial of
Reviewing
Authority
a) Attitude to a knowledge of
rules/regulations/procedures in the area of

163

function and the ability to apply them
correctly.
b) Strategic planning ability
c) Decision-making ability
d) Coordination ability
e) Ability to motivate and develop subordinates
Grading on ’ Functional Competency D + E
/ 50 X 30)

Overall Grading (1 + 2 + 3)

4. Integrity: (Please see instructions):

5. Pen picture by the Reporting Officer. Please comment on the overall qualities of the Officer ,
including areas of strengths and lessor strength and his attitude towards the weaker sections.

6. State of Health:

7. Overall Grade on a scale of 1 – 5 (in figures as well as in words). For numerical grading, please
see the instructions attached.

Signature of the Reporting Officer

Date : (Name in block letters)
Place : Designation during the period of report

164

PART – IV: Recommendation of Performance Appraisal Committee

1. Do the Committee agree with the assessment by the Reporting Officer with respect to the work
output and the various attributes in Part – III? If the Committee does not agree with any of the
numerical assessments of attributes, please record the assessment in the column provided in Part –
III and initials your entries.

Yes, We agree No, we do not agree. We have recorded our assessment in
Part – III
(Please strike out whichever is not applicable)

2. In case of a difference of opinion, please give details and reasons for the same.

3. Please comment, if any, on the pen picture by the Reporting Authority.

4. Overall grade on a scale of 1 – 5 (in figures as well as in words). For numerical grading, please see
the instructions attached with the ASPAR Form

5. Final Recommendation: Based on the Annual Performance Appraisal Report non-teaching
employee Guidelines for filling up the Annual Staff Performance Appraisal Report (ASPAR), we
recommend:

Outstanding

Very Good

Good

Average (for giving an opportunity to improve)

Below Average (to dispense with service)

Remarks, if any:

Expert Expert

BoG Member BoG Member Director

165

Guidelines for filling up the Annual Staff Performance Appraisal Report
(ASPAR)

The columns in the APAR should be filled on a five-point scale (5-maximum & 1-Minimum) with due
care and attention and after devoting adequate time. The Performance Appraisal Committee decided
following guidelines for filling up the Annual Staff Performance Appraisal Report (ASPAR):

• ≥4.5 will be rated as ‘outstanding’.

• Between ≥4 and less than 4.5 will be rated as ‘very good’.

• Between ≥ 3 and less than 4 will be rated as ‘good’.

• Between ≥ 2.5 and less than 3 will be rated as ‘average’.

• Less than 2.5 will be rated as ‘below average’ and treated as a non-performer.

For Staff appointed in regular positions and on probation for two years

• Guidelines for Appraisal after completion of one year during the probation period

o ≥4.5 will be rated as ‘outstanding’.

o Between ≥4 and less than 4.5 will be rated as ‘very good’.

o Between ≥ 3 and less than 4 will be rated as ‘good’.

o Between ≥ 2.5 and les s than 3 will be rated as ‘average’. He / She will be served with a
warning letter to improve his/her performance

o Less than 2.5 will be rated as ‘below average’ and treated as a non-performer. The
Employee will be dispensed with service as per terms and conditions of appointment.

• Guidelines for Appraisal after completion of two years for confirmation/extension or
probation/dispensation

o ≥4.5 will be rated as ‘outstanding’. Confirm the service in the present position.

o Between ≥4 and less than 4.5 will be rated as ‘very good’. Confirm the service in the present
position.

o Between ≥ 3 and less than 4 will be rated as ‘good’. If an employee has consistently rated
as ‘Good” in the first and second year during the probation period, maybe confirmed for
the position.

o Between ≥ 2.5 and less than 3 will be rated as ‘average’. A warning letter will be issued to
improve and extend the probation period by six months or a year as deemed fit by the
“Performance Appraisal Committee”.

166

o Less than 2.5 will be rated as ‘below average’ and treated as a non-performer. If a staff
earns below-average grades both the years, the staff will be dispensed from the service as
per the terms & conditions of the appointment.

• Guidelines for Annual Appraisal for confirmation

o ASPARs graded ≥4.5 will be rated as ‘outstanding’.

o Between ≥4 and less than 4.5 will be rated as ‘very good’.

o Between ≥ 3 and less than 4 will be rated as ‘good’.

o Between ≥ 2.5 and less than 3 will be rated as ‘average’.

o His/her period with being extended by six months and reviewed again for an extended
period. If the rating is less than 3 points, the services will be dispensed as per the terms
of the appointment.

o Less than 2.5 will be rated as ‘below average’ and treated as a non-performer.
o The Employee will be dispensed with service as per terms & conditions of
appointment.

For Staff appointed on contractual position for two years or more

o ≥4.5 will be rated as ‘outstanding’.

o Between ≥4 and less than 4.5 will be rated as ‘very good’.

o Between ≥ 3 and less than 4 will be rated as ‘good’. If a staff earns a “Good” grade both
years, he/she may apply for the regular position against the advertisement. His/her service
may be extended on contract by a year, and compensation may be fixed accordingly.

o Between ≥ 2.5 and less than 3 will be rated as ‘average’. A warning letter will be issued to
improve his/her performance immediately after the first year. If he/she does not improve
in three to six months, the services will be dispensed as per the terms of the appointment.

o Less than 2.5 will be rated as ‘below average’ and treated as a non-performer. . The
Employee will be dispensed with service as per terms & conditions of appointment.

167

Annexure XIII

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF MANAGEMENT RAIPUR

Application for Casual Leave/Restricted Holiday
(For Faculty & Group ‘A ’Officer)

2. Dept. /Section Nature of Leave:

3. Number of days of Leave From To

4. Prefix / Suffix if any

5. Purpose of leave

6. Complete postal address during

leave period with Telephone No.

7. Whom charge to be given
(Strike off whichever is not applicable)
8. Do you have any class / academic activities during the leave period? If yes, specify what
alternative arrangement made:

Date: _

Recommended/Not Recommended
Signature of the Employee

Approved By

(Director)
======================================================================
(FOR OFFICE USE)
Entitlement days (Balance)

Leave No of Days from to

Remarks if any

Admin Staff Chief Administrative Officer

168

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF MANAGEMENT
RAIPUR

Application for Casual Leave/Restricted Holiday
(For Staff – Group ‘B’& Below)

1. Name Designation:

2. Dept. /Section Nature of Leave:

3. Number of days of Leave _ From To

4. Prefix / Suffix if any _

5. Purpose of leave

6. Complete postal address during

leave period with Telephone No.

7. Whom charge to be given
(Strike off whichever is not applicable)

Date: _

Signature of the employee
Recommended/Not Recommended

Approved By

(Chief Administrative Officer)
======================================================================
(FOR OFFICE USE)
Entitlement days (Balance)

Leave No of Days from to

Remarks if any

Admin Staff Chief Administrative Officer

169

Annexure XIV

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF MANAGEMENT RAIPUR
Application for: Earned / Half Pay / Commuted / Extra Ordinary Leave/ Vacations
(For Faculty & Group ‘A ’Officer)

1. Name Designation:
2. Dept. /Section Nature of Leave:
3. Medical certificate attached (In case of Commuted Leave): Yes \ No
4. Number of days of Leave From To
5. Prefix / Suffix if any _
6. Purpose of leave
7. Whether to avail LTC: Yes \ No Home Town : Yes\No
a) Station from
b) No. of members to avail LTC
c) Block Year
8. Complete postal address during
leave period with Telephone No.

9. Whom charge to be given
(Strike off whichever is not applicable)
10. Do you have any class / academic activities during the leave period? If yes, specify what alternative
arrangement made:

Date: Signature of the Employee
======================================================================
(FOR USE IN THE DEPTT.)
Recommended / Not Recommended
Brief comments, if any _

Departmental Head
======================================================================
(FOR USE IN ADMN./DIR’S OFFICE)
Leave Sanctioned / Not Sanctioned
From to

Leave due as on E.L. Half Pay leave

Remarks if any

Admin Staff Chief Administrative Officer Director

170

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF MANAGEMENT RAIPUR
Application for: Earned / Half Pay / Commuted / Extra Ordinary Leave
(For Staff – Group ‘B’& Below)

1. Name: Designation:
2. Dept. /Section: Nature of Leave:
3. Medical certificate attached (In case of Commuted Leave): Yes \ No
4. Number of days of Leave: From: To:
5. Prefix / Suffix if any _
6. Purpose of leave:
7. Whether to avail LTC: Yes \ No Home Town : Yes\No
a) Station from
b) No. of members to avail LTC
c) Block Year
8. Complete postal address during
leave period with Telephone No.

9. Whom charge to be given:
(Strike off whichever is not applicable)

Date:

Signature of the Employee

Recommended/Not Recommended By Approved By

Departmental Head Chief Administrative Officer
======================================================================
(FOR OFFICE USE)
Leave Sanctioned / Not Sanctioned
From to

Leave due as on E.L. Half Pay leave

Remarks if any

Admin Staff Chief Administrative Officer

171

Annexure - XV
Indian Institute of Management Raipur
APPLICATION FOR L.T.C. (For Faculty & Group ‘A ’Officer)
1. Name of the Employee
2. Designation
3. Mobile No.
4. E-Mail address
5. Date of Joining in IIM Raipur
6. Pay –in- Band with GP
7. Whether Regular or Contractual
8. (a) Home Town as Recorded in the Service Book
(b) Nearest Railway Station

9. Whether wife / husband is employed : YES / NO
&If so whether entitled to L.T.C. : YES / NO

10. Whether the concession is to be availed for visiting home
town,and if so Block Year for which L.T.C. is to be
availed.

11. If the concession is to visit "ANY WHERE IN INDIA",
name the place to be visited and Block Year for which
L.T.C. is to
be availed.

12. Nature of leave (CL / EL)
13. Period of Leave OR
Proposed date for onward journey & Proposed date for
return journey , If advance required for family members
only)

14. Air/Rail/Bus fare from the Headquarter to place of visit by
shortest route.

15. Persons in respect of whom L.T.C. is proposed to be availed :-

Name Age (Years) Relationship with
the Employee
Staying
with Yes /
No
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)

(Employee who has been granted LTC advance is required to submit copies of tickets within 10 days of drawal of advance.
Bifurcation of advance required along with possible supporting documents / bills to be submitted)

172

17. EL Encashment with LTC

a) Do you want to encash EL with LTC (Yes / No)
b) No. of days of encashment of EL required with LTC
c) Total number of days of EL encashed earlier with LTC, if any

18. Declaration:
(a) I declare that particulars furnished above are true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
I undertake to produce the tickets for the outward journey within ten days of receipt of the
advance. In the event of cancellation of the journey or if I fail to produce the tickets within
10 days of the receipt of the advance, I undertake to refundthe entire advance in one lump
sum.
(b) I fully understand the rules & regulations for availing encashment of Earned Leave with
LTC. If any discrepancy found in information given above or any access payment made to
me, I will be liable for the same & will refund the excess amount paid to me.

Date : (Signature of the Employee)

Important Note
a. Government Employee entitled to travel by air should travel by Air India only in economy class irrespective
of entitlement.
b. LTC -80 ticket of Air India only to be purchased. Reimbursement of air fare lower than the LTC-80 air fare
of Air India will also be admissible for journey performed by Air India under LTC to ensure the LTC Claim
should not in any case, exceed LTC-80 fare of Air India.
c. Journey by private airlines is permissible to non -entitled officers for LTC subject to condition that re -
imbursement of fare would be restricted to the entitled class by rail.
d. Travel by Premium Trains are not permissible on LTC.
e. Govt. Employees are required to book the air tickets directly from the airlines (Booking counters, website
of airlines) or by utilizing the service of Authorised Travel Agent viz. M/s. Balmer Lawrie & Company, M/s
Ashok Travels & Tours and IRCTC. Booking through any other agency is not permissible.
f. No fee/Service charges (by whatever nomenclature), which are not included in the ‘tariff’ charges by Air -
India / Airlines, are required to be paid to the aforementioned authorized travel agents.
g. Travel by Private vehicle :
h. Govt. Servant may travel only by vehicles operated by Central / State Govt. or local bodies or by any
corporation in public sector owned
i. / controlled by Central/State Government.
j. Journey on LTC by taxi, auto-rickshaw etc, are permissible only between places not connected by rail.
k. EL Encashment with LTC:
l. A Balance of at least 30days of Earned Leave should be available to the credit of the employee after taking
into account the period of encashment as well as leave.
m. EL along with LTC may be encashed maximum up to 10 days at a time and maximum up to 60 days in
complete service period.
n. Fresh recruits to Central Government are allowed to travel to their home town along with their families on
three occasions in a block of four years and to any place in India on the fourth occasion. This facility shall
be available to the fresh recruits only for the first two blocks of four years applicable after joining the
Government for the first time.
o. LTC entitlement of a fresh recruit will be calculated calendar year wise with effect from the da te of
completion of one year of regular service.
p. No Grace Period for Fresh Recruits :
q. Carryover of LTC to next year is not allowed in case of a fresh recruit as he/she is already entitled to every
year LTC. Hence, if a fresh recruit does not avail the LTC facility in any year, his / her LTC will deem to
have lapsed with the end of that year.

173

=============================================================================
CHECK LIST FOR ADMINISTRATION

L.T.C / L.T.C. advance to

1. Block Year / Calendar Year
2. Home Town / A place anywhere in India
3. (a) For whom advance is applied for
(b) Total number of persons

4. Advance required for journey (both/ onwards/ return)
5. Leave application received (Yes / No)
6. Applied for EL Encashment with LTC (Yes / No)
7. Total number of days of EL encashed with LTC on date
8. EL Balance at credit
(after taking into account the period of encashment as well as leave)

9. Eligible for EL Encashment (Yes /No)
10. Amount of advance Rs.
11. Nature of Employment (Regular / Contractual)
12. If on Contract undertaking submitted
Necessary entry has been made in the L.T.C. Advance Register. He/She is eligible for L.T.C. for the

Admin Staff Chief Administrative Officer Director

CHECK LIST (Cash and Accounts Section)

For Advance

1. Railway / Air / Bus / Steamer fare for to and fro
by the entitled class or the class by which the
official proposes to travel, whichever is less

2. No of entitled persons for whom advance is
claimed

For EL Encashment

Cash equivalent = (Pay admissible on the date of availing LTC + DA) X Number of Days

174

= ( + ) X Number of Days
30

= Rs.

Accounts Officer FA & CAO Chief Administrative Officer Director

175

Indian Institute of Management Raipur
APPLICATION FOR L.T.C. (For Staff – Group ‘B’& Below)

1. Name of the Employee
2. Designation
3. Mobile No.
4. E-Mail address
5. Date of entering in the Government Service
6. Date of Joining in IIM Raipur
7. Pay –in- Band with GP
8. Whether Regular or Contractual
9. (a) Home Town as Recorded in the Service Book
(b) Nearest Railway Station

10. Whether wife / husband is employed : YES / NO
&If so whether entitled to L.T.C. : YES / NO

11. Whether the concession is to be availed for visiting home
town,and if so Block Year for which L.T.C. is to be availed.

12. If the concession is to visit "ANY WHERE IN INDIA", name
the place to be visited and Block Year for which L.T.C. is to
be availed.

13. Nature of leave (CL / EL)
14. Period of Leave OR
Proposed date for onward journey & Proposed date for return
journey , If advance required for family members only)

15. Air/Rail/Bus fare from the Headquarter to place of visit by
shortest route.

16. Persons in respect of whom L.T.C. is proposed to be availed :-

Name Age (Years) Relationship with
the Employee
Staying
with Yes /
No
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)

(Employee who has been granted LTC advance is required to submit copies of tickets within 10 days of drawal of advance.
Bifurcation of advance required along with possible supporting documents / bills to be submitted)

176

18. EL Encashment with LTC

a) Do you want to encash EL with LTC (Yes / No)
b) No. of days of encashment of EL required with LTC
c) Total number of days of EL encashed earlier with LTC, if any

19. Declaration:
(a) I declare that particulars furnished above are true and correct to the best of my knowledge. I
undertake to produce the tickets for the outward journey within ten days of receipt of the
advance. In the event of cancellation of the journey or if I fail to produce the tickets within 10
days of the receipt of the advance, I undertake to refundthe entire advance in one lump sum.
(b) I fully understand the rules & regulations for availing encashment of Earned Leave with LTC.
If any discrepancy found in information given above or any access payment made to me, I will
be liable for the same & will refund the excess amount paid to me.

Date : (Signature of the Employee)

Important Note
a. Government Employee entitled to travel by air should travel by Air India only in economy class irrespective of entitlement.
b. LTC -80 ticket of Air India only to be purchased. Reimbursement of air fare lower than the LTC-80 air fare of Air India will
also be admissible for journey performed by Air India under LTC to ensure the LTC Claim should not in any case, exceed
LTC-80 fare of Air India.
c. Journey by private airlines is permissible to non -entitled officers for LTC subject to condition that re -imbursement of fare
would be restricted to the entitled class by rail.
d. Travel by Premium Trains are not permissible on LTC.
e. Govt. Employees are required to book the air tickets directly from the airlines (Booking counters, website of airlines) or by
utilizing the service of Authorised Travel Agent viz. M/s. Balmer Lawrie & Company, M/s Ashok Travels & Tours and IRCTC.
Booking through any other agency is not permissible.
f. No fee/Service charges (by whatever nomenclature), which are not included in the ‘tariff’ charges by Air-India / Airlines, are
required to be paid to the aforementioned authorized travel agents.
g. Travel by Private vehicle :
Govt. Servant may travel only by vehicles operated by Central / State Govt. or local bodies or by any corporation in public
sector owned / controlled by Central/State Government.
h. Journey on LTC by taxi, auto-rickshaw etc, are permissible only between places not connected by rail.
EL Encashment with LTC:
A Balance of at least 30days of Earned Leave should be available to the credit of the employee after taking into account the
period of encashment as well as leave.
i. EL along with LTC may be encashed maximum up to 10 days at a time and maximum up to 60 days in complete service period.
j. Fresh recruits to Central Government are allowed to travel to their home town along with their families on three occasions
in a block of four years and to any place in India on the fourth occasion. This facility shall be available to the fresh recruits
only for the first two blocks of four years applicable after joining the Government for the first time.
k. LTC entitlement of a fresh recruit will be calculated calendar year wise with effect from the date of completion of one year of
regular service.
l. No Grace Period for Fresh Recruits :
Carryover of LTC to next year is not allowed in case of a fresh recruit as he/she is already entitled to every year LTC. Hence,
if a fresh recruit does not avail the LTC facility in any year, his / her LTC will deem to have lapsed with the end of that year.

==================================================================
=========
CHECK LIST FOR ADMINISTRATION
L.T.C / L.T.C. advance to
1. Block Year / Calendar Year
2. Home Town / A place anywhere in India
3. (a) For whom advance is applied for
(b) Total number of persons

4. Advance required for journey (both/ onwards/ return)

177

5. Leave application received (Yes / No)
6. Applied for EL Encashment with LTC (Yes / No)
7. Total number of days of EL encashed with LTC on date
8. EL Balance at credit
(after taking into account the period of encashment as well as
leave)

9. Eligible for EL Encashment (Yes /No)
10. Amount of advance Rs.
11. Nature of Employment (Regular / Contractual)
12. If on Contract undertaking submitted
Necessary entry has been made in the L.T.C. Advance Register. He/She is eligible for L.T.C. for the

Admin Staff Chief Administrative Officer

CHECK LIST (Cash and Accounts Section)

For Advance

1. Railway / Air / Bus / Steamer fare for to and fro
by the entitled class or the class by which the
official proposes to travel, whichever is less

2. No of entitled persons for whom advance is
claimed

For EL Encashment

Cash equivalent = (Pay admissible on the date of availing LTC + DA) X Number of Days
30

= ( + ) X Number of Days
30

= Rs.

Accounts Officer FA & CAO Chief Administrative Officer Director

178

Indian Institute of Management Raipur
LTC CLAIM BILL
PART - A
(To be filled by the Government Servant)

1. Kind of LTC (Home Town / Any Place in India)
2. Name of the Employee
3. Designation
4. Scale of Pay (Rs.)
5. Place of Visit
6. Block Year
7. Nature of leave sanctioned
8. Period of leave sanctioned

9. Particulars of members of the Family for whom LTC has been claimed:
Sl.
No.
Name Date of Birth Age (Years) Relationship with the
Employee
Staying
with
Yes / No
a)
b)
c)
d)

10. Details of journey performed by Govt. Servant and the members of his /her family
Place & Date of Visit Distance
in km
Mode of
Travel
Class of
Accommodati
on used
No of
Fares
Flight / Train
/ Bus Name
& Ticket No
The total
fare paid
(Rs.)
Departure Arrival

Note: *Tickets / Boarding Passes must be enclosed in original

12. . Particulars of a journey (s) for which higher class of accommodation than the one to which the
Government servant is entitled was used (Sanction No. and date to be given)
Place Mode of
Conveyance
Class to
which
entitled
Class by
which actually
travelled
No of
Fares
The fare
paid (Rs.) From To

179

Certified That: (Mandatory to tick and fill the appropriate declaration)

a) The information given above is true to the best of my knowledge and belief.

b) I have not drawn/submitted any other claim so far for leave Travel Concession in respect of

c) I have already drawn T.A. for the leave travel concession in respect of a journey performed by
the party on the earlier concession.

d) I have not already drawn T.A. for the leave travel concession in respect of journey performed

none of whom availed of the concession relating to that block.

f) I have already drawn T.A. for the leave travel concession in respect of a journey performed by
every year in a prescribed block for visiting the home town as all the members of my family are
living away from my place of work.

h) That my husband/wife is not/employed in government service.

i) That my husband/wife is employed in government service and the concession has not been
availed of by him/her separately for himself/herself or for any of the family members for the
concerned block of two years.

j) All members of my family for whom a claim has been made in this bill are residing with me and
are wholly dependent on me.

k) I and my family members actually travelled for the forward and returned journeys in the class of
accommodation for which a claim has been made by me.

Dated: Signature of Employee
PART – B
(To be filled in by Bill Section)

180

Accounts Officer FA &CAO CAO Director

Accounts Officer FA &CAO

181

Annexure XVI

Indian Institute of Management Raipur
Travel Request Form

Name (in Block Letters): . Designation: Basic Pay:

Director
IIM Raipur

Sanction is required to perform journey as below:
Departure Arrival Mode of
Journey*
Purpose Fare
(Rs.) Station Date Time Station Date Time
a b c d e f g h I

*Road (Taxi, Bus) Air, Rail
B Advance

Signature
(Where required)

Date Director
Date: Signature

*Prepare in duplicate Retain copy, which should be used as claim form on completing the journey.

182

Annexure XVII

Indian Institute of Management Raipur

Group Mediclaim Policy

The salient feature of Group Mediclaim Policy:

(i) This is a Family Floater Health Policy wherein the entire family will be covered single sum insured.
The policy covers reimbursement of hospitalization expenses for illness /disease or injury. The
policy will be issued on a floater basis.

(ii) Family means Self, Spouse and two dependent children up to the age of 25 years. Parents are not
covered.

Age Limit: 03 months to 65 years are eligible to enter the policy; however, extension up to the
age of 86 years can be given subject to loading and capping.

Sum Insured: Rs. 5,00,000/- (Rupees Five Lakh Only)

(iii) Pre-existing diseases under exclusion 4.1, the First 30 days waiting period under 4.2, with a
Specific waiting period under 4.3 are covered after loading of 25% premium on basic. Exclusions
4.1, 4.2 and 4.3 are as detailed below:

Exclusion 4.1: Pre-existing diseases

All pre -existing diseases when the cover incepts for the first time until 48 months of continuous
coverage have elapsed. Any complication arising from pre -existing ailment/disease/injuries will be
considered as a part of the pre-existing health condition or disease.

To illustrate, if a person is suffering from either hypertension or diabetes or both at the time of taking
the policy, then the policy shall be subject to the following exclusions.

Diabetes Hypertension Diabetes & Hypertension
Diabetic Retinopathy Coronary Artery Disease Diabetic Retinopathy
Diabetic Nephropathy Cerebro Vascular Accident Diabetic Nephropathy
Diabetic Foot / wound Hypertensive Nephropathy Diabetic Foot / wound
Diabetic Angiopathy Internal Bleeding /Haemorrhages Diabetic Angiopathy
Diabetic Neuropathy Diabetic Neuropathy
Hyper / Hypoglycaemic
shocks
Hyper / Hypoglycaemic
shocks
Coronary Artery Disease Coronary Artery Disease
Cerebro Vascular Accident
Hypertensive Nephropathy
Internal Bleed / Haemorrhages

Exclusion 4.2: the First 30 days waiting period

183

Any disease contracted by the Insured Person during the first 30 days from the inception of the policy.
This shall not apply in case of the Insured Person is hospitalized for injuries or suffered in an accident
which occurred after the inception of the first policy.

Exclusion 4.3: Specific waiting period

Following diseases/treatments are subject to a waiting period mentioned below:

One year waiting period: (a) Benign ENT disorders (b) Tonsillectomy/Adenoidectomy/
Mastoidectomy / Typanoplasty.

Two years waiting period : (a) Cataract (b) Benign Prostatic Hyperthropathy (c) Hernia (d) Hydrocele
(e) Congenital Internal Diseases (f) Fissures / Fistula in anus (g) Piles (Haemorrhoids) (h) Sinusitis and
related disorders (i) Polycystic ovarian diseases (j) Non-infective arthritis (k) Pilonidal sinus (l) Gout
& Rheumatism (m) hypertension and related complications (n) Diabetes and related complications (o)
Calculus diseases (p) Surgery of gall bladder & bile duct excluding malignancy (q) Surgery of Genitourinary system excluding malignancy (r) Surgery for prolapsed intervertebral disc arising from an
accident (s) Surgery of varicose vein (t) Hysterectomy are not payable for first two years of operation
of the policy.

Four years period: (a) Treatment for Joint replacement due to degenerative conditions (b) Age-related
osteoarthritis and osteoporosis are not payable for the first four years of operation of the policy. If these
diseases are pre-existing at the time of proposal, they will be covered only after four continuous claim
free policy years.

Maternity Benefits are covered after loading a 15% premium on a basic subject to payment of
Rs.25,000/- for normal delivery and Rs. 50,000/-for Caesarean. Newborn Baby will be covered under
maternity benefits up to the age of 03 months

Waiver of 9 months waiting period is covered after loading 5% premium on basic.

, The addition of Parents will be calculated with a loading of 100% on gross premium with a capping
of 20% on the claims pertaining to Parents.

Major exclusion of Group Mediclaim Policy

The followings are the major exclusion of this policy:

• HIV, AIDS, STD
• Congenital External Disease
• Sterility, Infertility, Assisted Conception
• Refractive Error(Lasik)
• Obesity
• Psychiatric disorder, Intentional self-injury/Risky Avocations.
• Genetic Disorder, Stem cell surgery.
• Circumcision, Vaccination, Cosmetic, Plastic surgery, Hormone replacement.
• Dental, OPD treatment, in hospital or Convalescent home.
• Drug Alcohol Abuse.
• Cost of spectacles, Contact lens, Hearing Aids, Cochlear Implants.
• Pieces of equipment (Externals/Internal, Durables, Ambulatory Devices, Items of Personal
Comforts, Home visit charges, Irrelevant Investigation/Treatment).

184

• Service Charge, Surcharge, Admission Fee, Registration Charges and Similar Charges.
• Naturopathy

185

Indian Institute of Management Raipur

Application for Medical Claims

Form of application for claiming Reimbursement of medical expenses incurred in connection with
medical attendance and/or treatment of IIM employees and their families

1. Name (in Block Letters) :
2. Designation :
3. Basic Pay :
4. Department: :
5. Residential address :
6. Whether married or unmarried :
7. If married, the place where wife/husband is employed :
8. Name of the patient and his/her relationship with the :
employee: (in case of children, state age also)
9. Place at which the patient fell ill :
10. Nature of illness and duration :
10. Details of the amounts claimed :
11. The Name & Designation of the Medical Officer :
Consulted and the Hospital or dispensary to which
Attached
12. The number and dates of consultation and the fee :
paid for each consultation
13 The number and dates of injection and the fee paid for each injection:
14. Any other charges :
15. Cost of medicines purchased from the market :

Declaration to be signed by the Employee

I hereby declare that the statements in the application are true to the best of my knowledge and belief
and that the person for whom medical expenses were incurred is wholly dependent upon me.

Date (Signature of the Claimant)

N.B. A separate form should be used for each patient

A list of medicines, cash memos, and the Essentially Certificate should be attached

Enclosure:
1
2
3

Signature of the Controlling Officer
Designation

186

Station

For use in Pay and Accounts Office (Post Check)

Admitted for Rs
Objected to Rs
Reasons for objection

Accountant FA&C AO Chief Administrative Officer

Director (For amount above Rs 15000/)

187

Annexure XVIII
Indian Institute of Management Raipur
Check List for the verification process

Name :

Position Offered :

Area :

Date of Joining :

Regular / Contract :
Sl. No. YES NO
1. Copy of accepted offer letter
2. 10th Certificate
3. Graduation Degree
4. Post-Graduation Degree
5. PhD. Degree
6. Any other qualifications (If yes, please specify)
•
•

7. Caste Certificate
8. Relieving / Lean letter from the previous employer
9. Certificates of all previous experience mentioned as per
application

10. Police Verification Certificate
11. Personal Data Form
12. Medical Certificate (Government Hospital)
13. Photographs
14. PAN Card Copy
15. Any other: If yes, please specify.

Date: Chief Administrative Officer

188

Annexure XIX
Indian Institute of Management Raipur
Consultancy Budget Approval Form

Consultancy Project Number :
Sl. No.
1 Name of the client
Address
2 Project Title
3 Particulars of Faculty
Project Co-ordinator
Member
Member
Member
4 Project Schedule
Project Start Date
Project Closing Date
5 Project Description (Attach a separate
sheet if needed )

6 BUDGET
6.1 Professional Fee
6.1.1 Name(s) of faculty
6.1.2 No. of days per faculty Rs.
6.1.3 Rate per day Rs.
6.1.4 Total Professional fee to be charged Rs.
6.2 EXPENDTIURE
6.2.1 Non-recurring Expenditure

Recurring Expenditure
6.2.2 Remuneration to external consultants
including their travel, boarding and
lodging charges
Name(s) of external consultants

6.2.2 a. No. of days per consultant
b. Rate per day Rs.
c. Total Fee to be paid to external
consultants
Rs.
6.2.3 Salary for Research Assistants/
support staff

a. Number of staff
b. Duration of engagement
c. Salary per month
d. Total Salary
6.2.4 Travelling charges including TA and
other conveyance charges as
applicable

189

6.2.5 Boarding and lodging charges for out
of Campus assignments, as applicable

6.2.6 Cost for data collection, conducting
survey, designing questionnaire

6.2.7 Local conveyance charges
6.2.8 Charges for photocopying, printing,
binding and secretarial services

6.2.9 Communication charges for the use of
telephone/Fax

6.2.10 Charges for the use of Computer and
other facilities

Any other (Please specify)
6.2.11 Total Expenditure (6.2.1+6.2.2)
Total of fees and expenditure (6.1+
6.2)

Service Tax (12.36% of 6.2.11)
6.3 Payment Schedule

Advance Rs.
Final Payment Rs.

Remarks, if any

Signature of Consulting Team

APPROVAL

DIRECTOR

190

Annexure XIX(a)
Indian Institute of Management Raipur

Statement of Income & Expenditure for Consultancy Project

Particulars Amount
Total Revenue (Including Service Tax)
Less: Service tax
Less: Institutional Charges @ 10%
Less: Direct Expenses
1. Honorarium to Faculty
2. Stationary Expenses
3. Miscellaneous Expenses
7. 4. Other Expenses
Net Revenue

Appropriation of Net Revenue for Project Directors

Net Revenue
Appropriation of Net Revenue:-
Institutional Share (1/3rd Corpus of IIM Raipur)
Project Director 2/3rd (To be equally shared)
Member 1
Member 2

Signature Program Director (s)

Director

191

Annexure XX

Indian Institute of Management Raipur
Budget for Faculty Development Programme (Open)

Title of the Program:
Duration of the Program:
Program Director (s):

S.No. Heads of Account Notes Amount Amount
1 Revenue is based on. Participants @...Per day for...
days.
1 ₹
2 Less: Expenses
Honorarium for Resource Person 2 ₹ 0.00
Travelling Expenses 3 ₹ 0.00
Lodging & Boarding 4 ₹ 0.00
Program Kit + Certificate Printing 5 ₹ 0.00
Study Material 6 ₹ 0.00
Memento, Flex, & Others 7 ₹ 0.00
Audio Visual Equipment & LCD ₹ 0.00
Miscellaneous ₹ 0.00
Contingency Expenses 5% of total Expenses 8 ₹ 0.00
₹ 0.00 ₹ 0.00
3 Surplus (Deficit) ₹

Note:
1 Revenue is calculated on the basis as .../- per person per day for .... days
3 Travelling expenses includes airfare of resource person & their local conveyance Plus
Local Conveyance of the participants for .... days and Knowledge Tour
4 Lodging: .... Participants & .... Resource person (Tentatively) for Double AC
Room/MAP plan accommodation for .... Days (One day before and after) @ .... per day
inclusive of taxes
Boarding:.... persons for .. days inclusive of morning & evening tea with snacks and one
Conference Dinner Evening Snack -inclusive of taxes
5 Program kit includes bag, writing pad, pen, pencil etc., & Printing of Certificate
7 Memento, Flex , Bouquets
Remarks
Signature Program Director (s)
Director

192

Annexure XX(a)
Indian Institute of Management Raipur
Statement of Expenditure for FDP (Open)

Title of the Program:
Duration of the Program:
Program Director (s):

Sl. No. Details Quantity Rs.
1.0 Program Kit
1.2 Writing Pads @ Rs. ... (Inclusive of Tax)
1.3 Cost of Pen @ Rs.... ( (Inclusive of Tax)
1.4 Delegate Badges @Rs..- per batch
2.0 Printing & Stationery
3.0 Postage, Telephone, Printer, Toner & Fax etc.
3.1 Telephone, Printer, Toner & Fax etc.
4.0 Photography/Video Recording
5.0 Local Conveyance
5.1 Taxi for Organising Conference @ Rs....per day for ..days
6.0 Lunch and Dinner, High Tea Cost
6.1 High tea and Lunch for ... nos for five days @ Rs.... per delegate
6.2 Conference Dinner for ... nos for 1 day @ Rs. ... per delegate (in
addition to the participants)

7.0 Honorarium for resource persons @Rs... per session (90 minutes)
8.0 Delegates to be invited from India
8.2 Delegates stay at hotel for days @ Rs....
9.0 Others
9.1 Sound System + Projector
9.2 Study materials @ Rs.... per person
9.3 Bouquet @ Rs. ...
9.4 Stage and Carpet
9.5 Backdrop and Standee
9.6 Mementoes @ Rs ....
9.7 Certificates....
10.0 Total
11.0 Contingency@5%
12.0 Grand Total

Signature Program Director (s)

193

Annexure XX(b)

Indian Institute of Management Raipur
Budget for Faculty Development Programme (In-Company)

Title of the Program:
Duration of the Program:
Program Director (s):

S.No. Heads of Account Notes Amount Amount
1 Revenue is based on. Participants @...Per day for... days. 1 ₹
2 Less: Expenses
Honorarium for Resource Person 2 ₹ 0.00
Travelling Expenses 3 ₹ 0.00
Lodging & Boarding 4 ₹ 0.00
Program Kit + Certificate Printing 5 ₹ 0.00
Study Material 6 ₹ 0.00
Memento, Flex, & Others 7 ₹ 0.00
Audio Visual Equipment & LCD ₹ 0.00
Miscellaneous ₹ 0.00
Contingency Expenses 5% of total Expenses 8 ₹ 0.00
₹ 0.00 ₹ 0.00
3 Surplus (Deficit) ₹

Note:
1 Revenue is calculated on the basis as .../- per person per day for .... days
3 Travelling expenses includes airfare of resource person & their local conveyance Plus Local
Conveyance of the participants for .... days and Knowledge Tour
4 Lodging: .... Participants & .... Resource person (Tentatively) for Double AC Room/MAP
plan accommodation for .... Days (One day before and after) @ .... per day inclusive of
taxes
Boarding:.... persons for .. days inclusive of morning & evening tea with snacks and one
Conference Dinner Evening Snack -inclusive of taxes
5 Program kit includes bag, writing pad, pen, pencil etc., & Printing of Certificate
7 Memento, Flex , Bouquets

Signature Program Director(s)

Director

194

Annexure XX(c)
Indian Institute of Management Raipur
Statement of Expenditure for FDP (In-Company)

Title of the Program:
Duration of the Program:
Program Director(s):

Sl. No. Details Quantity Rs.
1.0 Program Kit
1.2 Writing Pads @ Rs. ... (Inclusive of Tax)
1.3 Cost of Pen @ Rs.... ( (Inclusive of Tax)
1.4 Delegate Badges @Rs..- per batch
2.0 Printing & Stationery
3.0 Postage, Telephone, Printer, Toner & Fax etc.
3.1 Telephone, Printer, Toner & Fax etc.
4.0 Photography/Video Recording
5.0 Local Conveyance
5.1 Taxi for Organising Conference @ Rs....per day for ..days
6.0 Lunch and Dinner, High Tea Cost
6.1 High tea and Lunch for ... nos for five days @ Rs.... per delegate
6.2 Conference Dinner for ... nos for 1 day @ Rs. ... per delegate (in
addition to the participants)

7.0 Honorarium for resource persons @Rs... per session (90 minutes)
8.0 Delegates to be invited from India
8.2 Delegates stay at hotel for days @ Rs....
9.0 Others
9.1 Sound System + Projector
9.2 Study materials @ Rs.... per person
9.3 Bouquet @ Rs. ...
9.4 Stage and Carpet
9.5 Backdrop and Standee
9.6 Mementoes @ Rs ....
9.7 Certificates....
10.0 Total
11.0 Contingency@5%
12.0 Grand Total

Signature Program Director (s)

195

Annexure XXI

Indian Institute of Management Raipur
Budget for Management Development Programme (In-Company)

Title of the Program:
Duration of the Program:
Program Director (s):

S.No. Heads of Account Notes Amount Amount
1 Revenue is based on. Participants @...Per day for... days. 1 ₹
2 Less: Expenses
Honorarium for Resource Person 2 ₹ 0.00
Travelling Expenses 3 ₹ 0.00
Lodging & Boarding 4 ₹ 0.00
Program Kit + Certificate Printing 5 ₹ 0.00
Study Material 6 ₹ 0.00
Memento, Flex, & Others 7 ₹ 0.00
Audio Visual Equipment & LCD ₹ 0.00
Miscellaneous ₹ 0.00
Contingency Expenses 5% of total Expenses 8 ₹ 0.00
₹ 0.00 ₹ 0.00
3 Surplus (Deficit) ₹

Note:
1 Revenue is calculated on the basis as .../- per person per day for .... days
3 Travelling expenses includes airfare of resource person & their local conveyance Plus Local
Conveyance of the participants for .... days and Knowledge Tour
4 Lodging: .... Participants & .... Resource person (Tentatively) for Double AC Room/MAP
plan accommodation for .... Days (One day before and after) @ .... per day inclusive of
taxes
Boarding:.... persons for .. days inclusive of morning & evening tea with snacks and one
Conference Dinner Evening Snack -inclusive of taxes
5 Program kit includes bag, writing pad, pen, pencil etc., & Printing of Certificate
7 Memento, Flex , Bouquets

Signature Program Director(s):

Director

196

Annexure XXI(a)
Indian Institute of Management Raipur
Statement of Expenditure for MDP (In-Company)

Title of the Program:
Duration of the Program:
Program Director(s):

Sl. No. Details Quantity Rs.
1.0 Program Kit
1.2 Writing Pads @ Rs. ... (Inclusive of Tax)
1.3 Cost of Pen @ Rs.... ( (Inclusive of Tax)
1.4 Delegate Badges @Rs..- per batch
2.0 Printing & Stationery
3.0 Postage, Telephone, Printer, Toner & Fax etc.
3.1 Telephone, Printer, Toner & Fax etc.
4.0 Photography/Video Recording
5.0 Local Conveyance
5.1 Taxi for Organising Conference @ Rs....per day for ..days
6.0 Lunch and Dinner, High Tea Cost
6.1 High tea and Lunch for ... nos for five days @ Rs.... per delegate
6.2 Conference Dinner for ... nos for 1 day @ Rs. ... per delegate (in
addition to the participants)

7.0 Honorarium for resource persons @Rs... per session (90 minutes)
8.0 Delegates to be invited from India
8.2 Delegates stay at hotel for days @ Rs....
9.0 Others
9.1 Sound System + Projector
9.2 Study materials @ Rs.... per person
9.3 Bouquet @ Rs. ...
9.4 Stage and Carpet
9.5 Backdrop and Standee
9.6 Mementoes @ Rs ....
9.7 Certificates....
10.0 Total
11.0 Contingency@5%
12.0 Grand Total

Signature Program Director(s):

197

Annexure XXI(b)
Indian Institute of Management Raipur
Statement of Income & Expenditure for MDP (In-Company)

Particulars Amount
Total Revenue (Including Service Tax)
Less : Service tax
Less: Institutional Charges @ 10%
Less: Direct Expenses
1. Lodging & Boarding
2. Honorarium to Faculty
3. Stationary Expenses
4. Miscellaneous Expenses
Net Revenue

Appropriation of Net Revenue for Program Directors

Net Revenue
Appropriation of Net Revenue:-
Institutional Share (2/3rd Corpus of IIM Raipur)
Program Director 1/3rd (To be equally shared)
Faculty 1
Faculty 2

Signature Program Director (s)

Director

198

Annexure XXII

Indian Institute of Management Raipur
Budget for Management Development Programme (Open)

Title of the Program:
Duration of the Program:
Program Director (s):

S.No. Heads of Account Notes Amount Amount
1 Revenue is based on. Participants @...Per day for... days. 1 ₹
2 Less: Expenses
Honorarium for Resource Person 2 ₹ 0.00
Travelling Expenses 3 ₹ 0.00
Lodging & Boarding 4 ₹ 0.00
Program Kit + Certificate Printing 5 ₹ 0.00
Study Material 6 ₹ 0.00
Memento, Flex, & Others 7 ₹ 0.00
Audio Visual Equipment & LCD ₹ 0.00
Miscellaneous ₹ 0.00
Contingency Expenses 5% of total Expenses 8 ₹ 0.00
₹ 0.00 ₹ 0.00
3 Surplus (Deficit) ₹

Note:
1 Revenue is calculated on the basis as .../- per person per day for .... days
3 Travelling expenses includes airfare of resource person & their local conveyance Plus Local
Conveyance of the participants for .... days and Knowledge Tour
4 Lodging: .... Participants & .... Resource person (Tentatively) for Double AC Room/MAP
plan accommodation for .... Days (One day before and after) @ .... per day inclusive of
taxes
Boarding:.... persons for .. days inclusive of morning & evening tea with snacks and one
Conference Dinner Evening Snack -inclusive of taxes
5 Program kit includes bag, writing pad, pen, pencil etc., & Printing of Certificate
7 Memento, Flex , Bouquets

Signature Program Director(s)

Director

199

Annexure XXII(a)
Indian Institute of Management Raipur
Statement of Expenditure for MDP (Open)

Title of the Program:
Duration of the Program:
Program Director(s):

Sl. No. Details Quantity Rs.
1.0 Program Kit
1.2 Writing Pads @ Rs. ... (Inclusive of Tax)
1.3 Cost of Pen @ Rs.... ( (Inclusive of Tax)
1.4 Delegate Badges @Rs..- per batch
2.0 Printing & Stationery
3.0 Postage, Telephone, Printer, Toner & Fax etc.
3.1 Telephone, Printer, Toner & Fax etc.
4.0 Photography/Video Recording
5.0 Local Conveyance
5.1 Taxi for Organising Conference @ Rs....per day for ..days
6.0 Lunch and Dinner, High Tea Cost
6.1 High tea and Lunch for ... nos for five days @ Rs.... per delegate
6.2 Conference Dinner for ... nos for 1 day @ Rs. ... per delegate (in addition
to the participants)

7.0 Honorarium for resource persons @Rs... per session (90 minutes)
8.0 Delegates to be invited from India
8.2 Delegates stay at hotel for days @ Rs....
9.0 Others
9.1 Sound System + Projector
9.2 Study materials @ Rs.... per person
9.3 Bouquet @ Rs. ...
9.4 Stage and Carpet
9.5 Backdrop and Standee
9.6 Mementoes @ Rs ....
9.7 Certificates....
10.0 Total
11.0 Contingency@5%
12.0 Grand Total

Signature Program Director(s):

200

Annexure XXII(b)

Indian Institute of Management Raipur
Statement of Income & Expenditure for MDP (Open)

Particulars Amount
Total Revenue (Including Service Tax)
Less : Service tax
Less: Direct Expenses
Less: Institutional Charges @ 10%
1. Lodging & Boarding
2. Honorarium to Faculty
3. Stationary Expenses
4. Miscellaneous Expenses
Net Revenue

Appropriation of Net Revenue for Program Directors

Net Revenue
Appropriation of Net Revenue:-
Institutional Share (1/3rd Corpus of IIM Raipur)
Program Director 2/3rd (To be equally shared)
Faculty 1
Faculty 2

Signature Program Director (s)

Director

201

Annexure XXII(c)

Indian Institute of Management Raipur
Statement of Income & Expenditure for FDP (Open)

Particulars Amount
Total Revenue (Including Service Tax)
Less : Service tax
Less: Institutional Charges @ 10%
Less: Direct Expenses
1. Lodging & Boarding
2. Honorarium to Faculty
3. Stationary Expenses
4. Miscellaneous Expenses
Net Revenue

Appropriation of Net Revenue for Program Director(s)

Net Revenue
Appropriation of Net Revenue:-
Institutional Share (1/3rd Corpus of IIM Raipur)
Program Director 2/3rd (To be equally shared)
Faculty 1
Faculty 2

Signature Program Director (s)

Director

202

Annexure XXII(d)

Indian Institute of Management Raipur
Statement of Income & Expenditure for FDP (In-Company)

Particulars Amount
Total Revenue (Including Service Tax)
Less : Service tax
Less: Institutional Charges @ 10%
Less: Direct Expenses
1. Lodging & Boarding
2. Honorarium to Faculty
3. Stationary Expenses
4. Miscellaneous Expenses
Net Revenue

Appropriation of Net Revenue for Program Directors

Net Revenue
Appropriation of Net Revenue:-
Institutional Share (2/3rd Corpus of IIM Raipur)
Program Director 1/3rd (To be equally shared)
Faculty 1
Faculty 2

Signature Program Director (s)

Director
