VIGIL MECHANISM AND WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY
OF
KHANNA PAPER MILLS LIMITED

INDEX

INTRODUCTION

Pursuant to Section 177(9) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 7 of
Companies (Meeting of Board and its Powers) Rules, 2014, Every listed
company and such Companies as may be prescribed shall establish a vigil
mechanism for their directors and employees to report their genuine concerns
or grievances. As Khanna Paper Mills Limited ( “Company”) falls under the
prescribed class of companies, policy for vigil mechanism (whistle blower) is
being established.
This Whistle Blower Policy has been formulated to enable the employees and
directors to raise concern against any malpractices such as unethical
behaviour, actual or suspected fraud activities or violation of the code of
conduct or policies of the Company.
The company is committed to adhere to the highest standard of ethical, moral
and legal conduct of business operations and in order to maintain these
standards, the company encourages its employees who have genuine
concern about suspected misconduct to come forward and express these
concerns without fear of punishment or unfair treatment.
The mechanism provide for adequate safeguard against victimization of
Directors and Employees to avail of the mechanism and also provide for direct
access to the chairman in exceptional cases.

OBJECTIVES OF POLICY

With a view to extract maximum information on activities affecting the
Company, its values, philosophy, principles and beliefs including
violations of legal or regulatory requirements, incorrect or
misrepresentation of financial statements, reports etc., it is proposed to
bring into effect detection and prevention of any act or otherwise
indulged by any employee, which is detrimental and/or jeopardizing our
organizational value systems, across Company.
This policy aims to protect the reputation and wealth/assets of the
Company from loss or damage, resulting from suspected or confirmed
incidents of dishonest behaviour/ fraud/ violation / misconduct/ wilful
negligence.

It will provide an opportunity to employees to report any dishonest
behaviour/ fraud / misconduct/ wilful negligence/ suspicious activity/
critical information/ evidence, violations of legal or regulatory
requirements, incorrect or misrepresentation of financial statements,
reports etc.

This will act as a force multiplier to detect/investigate any observations
made by the whistle blower and protection of whistle blower from
retaliation.

SCOPE:

The policy is an extension of the code of conduct for Directors & Senior
Management Personnel and covers disclosure of any unethical and
improper or malpractices and events which have taken place/suspected
to take place involving.

1. Breach of Business integrity and ethics;
2. Breach of Terms & conditions of Employment and rules thereof;
3. Intentional Financial irregularities or suspected fraud;
4. Breach of the Company’s Code of Conduct;
5. Wilful negligence, danger to health, safety and environment;
6. Manipulation of company records & data;
7. Misappropriation of company funds/assets.

DEFINITION

1. “Board” means the Board of Directors of the Company.
2. “Company” means Khanna Paper Mills Limited.
3. “Code of Conduct” means the code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
4. “Director” means a director appointed on the Board of the Company.
5. “Employee” means every employee on the pay rolls including those on
deputation, contract, temporary, probationer, apprentice, part time
employees / workers, full time consultants, holding permanent, honorary,
ad hoc, voluntary or short term positions.
6. “Policy” means Vigil Mechanism/Whistle Blower Policy.
7. “Protected Disclosures” means a concern raised by an employee or
group of employees of the Company, through a written communication
and made in good faith which discloses or demonstrates information
about an unethical or improper activity with respect to the Company.
8. “Subject” means a person or group of persons against or in relation to
whom a Protected Disclosure has been made or evidence gathered
during the course of an investigation.
9. “Vigilance Officer” means a person who is nominated as a vigilance
officer to receive protected disclosures and maintain records thereof,
placing the same before the Board for its disposal and informing the
Whistle Blower the result thereof.
10. “Whistle Blower” means a director or employee who makes a protected
disclosure under this policy and also referred in this policy as
complainant.

PROCEDURE
All protected disclosures should be reported in writing by the complainant in a
closed and secured envelop and should be super scribed as “ Protected
disclosure under the Whistle Blower Policy ” or sent through email with the
subject “ Protected disclosure under the whistle Blower Policy ” and should
either be typed or written in a legible handwriting in English/Hindi/Punjabi.
If the complaint is not super scribed and closed as mentioned above, the
protected disclosure will be dealt with as if a normal disclosure.
Protected Disclosures to be factual and not speculative or in the nature of an
interpretation / conclusion and should contain as much specific information as
possible to allow for proper assessment of the nature and extent of the concern
and evidence (to the extent possible).
All protected disclosures should be addressed to the Vigilance Officer and in
the exceptional cases, all such disclosures should be addressed to the
Chairperson of the Audit Committee and thereafter the Vigilance officer or
Chairperson shall forward the protected disclosure to the Audit Committee
within 07 (Seven) days from the date of receipt of such disclosures.
The contact details of the vigilance officer are as under-
Name: Manpreet Singh
Designation: Senior General Manager
Address: NH-3, Bye Pass, Opp. Metro Cash & Carry, Amritsar, Punjab-143001

E-mail Id: manpreet.singh@khannapaper.com
Contact No: +91 9815302703

In order to protect the identity of the complainant, the vigilance officer will not
issue any acknowledgement to the complainants, and they are not advised
neither to write their name /address on the envelope nor enter into any further
correspondence with the vigilance officer.

On receipt of the protected Disclosure, the Vigilance Officer, as the case may
be, shall make a record of the protected disclosure. The record will include:

Facts of the matter;

Whether the same Protected Disclosure was raised previously by
anyone, and if so, the outcome thereof;

Whether any Protected Disclosure was raised previously against the
same Subject, and if so, the outcome there.

ROLE OF VIGILANCE OFFICER

To assist the concerned person in the investigations to identify the facts
/ details about the reported incident and identify the perpetrator. A
report will be prepared and put up to the Board for further directions.

To forward the complaints to the concerned person of the Company
within the mentioned specified time as above.

To ensure the investigation will be completed within 30 working days of
initiation.

To record all complaints received from Employee or Director on
suspected incidents of fraud/misconduct/ dishonest behavior.

To suggest corrective action and measures to prevent recurrence of
such incidents.

To ensure any information regarding the identity of the whistle blower be
kept secret.

To retain all protected disclosures received along with the results of
investigation relating thereto for a minimum period of 01 (One)
years.

DECISION AND REPORTING

If an investigation leads to a conclusion that an improper or unethical act has
been committed, the Vigilance Officer or Chairperson of Audit Committee
shall recommend to the Board of Director of the Company to take such
disciplinary or corrective action as it may deem fit.

Any disciplinary or corrective action initiated against the subject as a result of
the finding of an investigation pursuant to this policy shall adhere to the
applicable personnel or staff conduct and disciplinary procedure. The
concerned person shall take appropriate disciplinary action against unethical
& improper practices in accordance with the rules, procedures and policies of
the Company.

If you have any questions regarding the Policy or the Code of Conduct, Please
contact:

Address:

NH-3, Bye Pass, Amritsar, Punjab – 143001
+91-183-5067100
info@khannapaper.com
