MyGov LEAVE POLICY

1. Objective

The objective of this policy is to ensure that resources are able to balance
personal and professional life without compromising business continuity and
discipline.

2. Scope

The policy is applicable to all resources at MyGov.

3. Guidelines

a) Leave entitlement and computation are linked to the calendar year i.e. from
January 1 to December 31.

b) Other than Maternity Leave, no leave can be claimed as a matter of right. It
should be planned in advance in consultation with the manager in a manner
that it does not impact the business adversely or disrupt the functioning of
the Vertical.
c) Leave can be refused, revoked, curtailed by the Department/ Ministry based on
business exigencies.

d) Resources are eligible to avail only casual / sick leave during the probation and sick
leave during notice period.

e) A resource can avail the following types of leave based on the need and reason of
absence:

o Earned Leave (EL)
o Casual Leave (CL)

o Sick Leave (SL)
o Maternity Leave
o Paternity Leave
o Half-Day Leave
f) A resource can proceed for Earned leave only after approval by the concerned
Department official.

g) All resources are expected to apply for leave i.e. EL, SL, and CL etc.

h) Apart from the permitted Leaves, a List of Holidays for the Calendar Year is also
published by MyGov. These holidays are in addition to the permissible leaves.

4. Leave Benefits

(A) Earned Leave

Entitlement 15 days per year/prorated during the year of joining and separation.
Earned Leave cannot be availed in advance. EL has to be accumulated first
at the rate of 1.25 days per month of service before being availed.
Purpose May be used for personal reasons
Process Can be availed only with prior approval of the immediate manager.
HR must be notified of the approval. Clubbing of Intervening holidays
and weekends would be treated/counted towards leave.
For instance, in case of leaves availed on Friday and Monday, it will
be counted as 4 days leave. Intervening holidays will also be counted
as leave.
In case of leave availed on a Friday or Monday, it will be counted as
1 day leave.
Accumulation A maximum of 10 Earned leaves can be carried forward to the
next year by an employee. Total accumulation of EL on an
employee’s account is capped at 30 days. EL accumulation
above 30 days will be considered as lapsed.
Encashment Not eligible.
In case of separation accumulated EL can be adjusted against unserved
notice period, if any, with the approval of competent authority for
extreme situations and the residual EL, if any, will lapse. Residual Leave,
after such adjustment, will not be encashed on separation.

(B) Casual Leave

Entitlement 06 days per year – cannot be carried over or combined with any other
leave. Is prorated during the year of joining and separation
Purpose May be used for personal reasons
Process Can be availed with prior intimation preferably. Intervening holidays
and weekends are not treated / counted towards leave.
Encashment Not eligible
Accumulation No accumulation of CL is done.

(C) Sick Leave

Entitlement 06 days per year / prorated during the year of joining and separation
Purpose May be used for medical reasons
Process Can be availed for medical reasons. Intervening holidays and
weekends are not treated as leave. Leave availed beyond three days
requires a medical fitness certificate to be submitted.
Encashment Not Applicable
Accumulation Can be accumulated up to 25 days. All Sick Leave above 3 days will require
a medical certificate.

(D) Maternity Leave

Eligibility Provision of this leave are all governed by the Maternity Benefit conditions
provided in Chapter 6 of the Code on Social Security 2020 of the
Government of India. Employees are required to consult the Code for
further details. All female resources who have worked at least for a period
of 80 days or more in the twelve months preceding the date of expected
delivery are eligible for maternity leave. The leave entitlement for a woman
with one or no surviving children is 26 weeks, of which 8 weeks can be
taken prior to delivery. For a woman with two or more surviving children
maximum leave allowed is 12 weeks, of which 6 can be taken before
delivery. Under the Code leave benefits of 12 weeks are allowed to women
adopting a child below the age of 3 months or obtaining one through
surrogacy. The Code also lays down leave entitlement in conditions of

miscarriage and other health emergencies during pregnancy which will
apply in case it is necessary.
Process Expectant mothers are to keep their Manager and HR informed about the
date of delivery and plan their leave before and after the date accordingly.
Encashment Maternity leave is a paid leave and encashment is not allowed
Accumulation Accumulation of Maternity Leave is not permitted.
In extraordinary circumstances MyGov may allow combining other leave
for which the employee is eligible with ML and to extend the duration with
prior approval of the competent authorit y provided the employee have
sufficient or required leave balance.

(E) Paternity Leave

Eligibility All male resources once in a fixed tenure up to a maximum of two
occasions during the total engagement period.
Paternity Leave is also admissible on valid adoption of a child below
the age of one year.
Entitlement Fifteen (15) working days
Purpose Paternity leave can be availed within one month of delivery.
Process Can be availed with prior approval of the immediate manager

HR must be notified of the approval.
Extension Not permitted
Encashment Not permitted
Accumulation Not permitted

(F) Half Day Leave

Half Day Leave When applying for a half day leave a resource is required to spend a
minimum of 4 business hours at office. Half day leave can be used from the
balance in the Casual and Sick Leave categories first and then from Earned
Leave. No separate entitlement in days is available for Half Day Leave.

(G) Others:

5. Exceptions/Modifications

Any exceptions to this policy would require prior approval of CEO of MyGov.
The policy may be revised / modified from time to time.

Absence from
work/No
Leave Balance
Absence from work without approval will be treated as leave

In case a resource does not have any leave in his/her balance, the
entire leave period will be treated as Unpaid Leaves (including
holidays). The same period will be treated as leave without pay and
will warrant salary deduction.
Bandh, Voting,
Security
reasons
On the request from the affected resources/Suo Moto the HR may
issue a special advisory. Such periods will be treated as special casual
leave.
Others A resource will be eligible for leave proportionate to the period of
service computed from the date of joining.

In the event of separation, all forms of Leave that accrue on an annual
basis will be computed on a pro-rata basis.
