Mafatlal Industries Ltd. MIL/POL/HR/6.0
POSH POLICY

Applicability: All in Mafatlal Industries Ltd
PURPOSE
To provide an environment that enables employees to work without fear of prejudice, gender bias and Sexual
Harassment. Every employee in the Company should be treated with Dignity and Respect.
SCOPE
a) This policy applies to all categories of Employees of the Company, including permanent management and
workmen, temporaries, trainees and employees on contract at its workplace.
b) The workplace includes all offices or other premises where the company’s business is conducted.
COMMITTE
A committee has been constituted by the management to consider and redress complaints of sexual
harassment pertaining to the offices / administrative units / businesses of the Company.
The Chairman and the members of the committee are as follows: -
1. Ms. Smita Jhanwar - Chairperson
2. Dr. Ashwini Bhalerao Gandhi- Deputy Chairperson (External Committee member)
3. Ms. Kavita Unarkat-Member
4. Mr. Amish Shah -Member
5. Mr. Akash Dhuri- Member- Effective from 1st August’24
A quorum of three members is required to be present for the proceedings to take place. The quorum should
include the Chairperson and at least two members, one of whom shall be a lady.
Above formed committee should ensure that the grievances/ redressal is solved as per the process laid in
Vishaka guidelines under Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal)
Act, 2013. Also, committee should ensure that at least one meeting is conducted in a financial year for creating
awareness.
Separate Internal Complaint Committee constituted at factory of the Company at Nadiad as per below:
1. Mrs. Pratima Solanki - Chairperson
2. Dr. Ashwini Bhalerao Gandhi- Deputy Chairperson (External Committee member)
3. Mrs. Snehal Mankar - Member
4. Mrs. Falguni Dabhi -Member
5. Mr. Ankit Patel -Member
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
POSH POLICY
(PREVENTION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT)
Policy No. Effective From Review Frequency
MIL/POL/HR/6.0 1st April 2024 Annually
Prepared By Reviewed By Approved By

Kavita Unarkat
General Manager HR
Milan Shah
CHRO
Priyavrata Mafatlal
MD
