Page | 1

HUMAN RIGHT POLICY
1. Philosophy
As a Maharatna and fully integrated energy company, Oil India Limited (OIL) is committed to
upholding and promoting human rights as a fundamental aspect of our business operations. We
recognize that our responsibilities go beyond energy security to include sustainable development,
social commitment, and inclusive growth.
OIL is committed to upholding the six fundamental rights enshrined in the Indian Constitution: the
Right to Equality, Right to Freedom, Right Against Exploitation, Right to Freedom of Religion,
Cultural and Educational Rights, and the Right to Constitutional Remedies. We aspire to uphold the
essence of Human Rights, guided by national and international principles such as the UN Global
Compact (UNGC), Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), ILO Declaration on
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the National Guidelines on Responsible Business
Conduct (N GRBC). Our policies and practices are designed to align with global best practices,
ensuring dignity, equality, and respect for all stakeholders.
2. Statement
Our employees are our pride; thus, OIL respects the dignity and stipulated rights of our employees in
the workplace and is accountable for ensuring their rights to safety, security, a clean and healthy
workplace, and freedom from any form of harassment or discrimination. OIL is committed to treating
employees, suppliers, vendors, and stakeholders fairly in every aspect.
3. Objectives
3.1 To express our commitment to conducting business with ethical values and embracing practices
that support human rights in every aspect of our operations.
3.2 To encourage our employees and stakeholders (including business and supply chain partners) to
adopt, promote, and respect human rights within their operations and supply chains by adhering to
applicable laws and international human rights principles.
4. Scope
This policy applies to all the personnel who are working for or on the behalf of Oil India Limited,
including subsidiaries, joint ventures, managed sites, licensees, outsourcing partners, corporate
offices, and research facilities. It extends to all employees, contractors, business partners, suppliers,
service providers, and other stakeholders.

Page | 2

5. Commitment
5.1 Equal Opportunity : OIL is an equal opportunity organization and does not tolerate discrimination
in any form based on origin, race, color, sex, language, religion, disability, political or other opinions,
national or social origin, property, birth, or status.
5.2 Diversity and Inclusion : OIL is committed to upholding human rights by fostering a workplace
that ensures social and economic dignity, freedom, and equality, regardless of nationality, gender,
economic status, or religion.
5.3 Prohibition of child labour / forced labour / human trafficking : OIL strictly prohibits child
labour, forced or compulsory labour, and human trafficking across all operations. No person below
the age of 18 is employed, and all units comply with this principle. Vendors, contractors, and suppliers
are also required to adhere to these standards.
5.4. Employee welfare and engagement: OIL upholds and respects the labour rights of its workforce
and all workers across its operations, ensuring safe working conditions, non -discrimination, fair
wages, working hours, and the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining.
OIL fosters a dynamic and inclusive workplace culture by prioritizing open dialogue and continuous
feedback by actively engaging with its employees.
5.5 Prevention of harassment : We are strongly committed to fostering a workplace where every
employee is treated with dignity and respect. We believe in providing a gender -sensitive, inclusive,
and safe work environment, free from violence, harassment, intimidation, and any disruptive
conditions arising from internal or external threats.
OIL upholds a zero-tolerance policy towards sexual harassment and any behavior that creates an
offensive or hostile work atmosphere, including unwelcome advances or inappropriate conduct. To
reinforce a culture of mutual respect and awareness, all employees are required to undergo regular
sensitization training on workplace behavior and gender equality.
5.6 Empowering Local Communities and stakeholder engagement : OIL values the diverse
cultures, languages, traditions, and customs of the communities where it operates. Through various
engagement initiatives, the company fosters goodwill, promotes sustainable employment, and creates
economic opportunities. OIL also upholds the rights of affected communities to clean drinking water,
sanitation, land, natural resources, and a healthy environment.
5.7 Environment stewardship : OIL is dedicated to minimizing environmental impact, protecting
natural resources, and promoting sustainable practices. Through responsible operations, continuous
improvement, and stakeholder engagement, the company ensures a safe, clean, and sustainable
environment for present and future generations.
6. Grievance redressal
OIL is committed to monitoring and addressing human rights violations by providing effective
grievance mechanisms for its workforce, affected communities, and workers across the value chain.
In order to address employee concerns and complaints pertaining to human rights and prohibit any
act of discrimination & violation of human rights, OIL has Grievance Redressal System, Safety
Committees, Internal Complaints Committee as part of Policy for prevention of Sexual harassment at
Workplace, Whistle-blower Policy, Vigil Mechanism etc.

Page | 3

In addition, OIL has put in place a structured framework to implement the Right to Information Act
and Centralised Public Grievance Redress and Monitoring System (CPGRAMs) in OIL.
7.Training and Capacity Building
OIL is committed to impart sensitization training to its employees and associates including business
partners, suppliers, contractors and their personnel to be aware of and respect human rights in the
workplace and in the local communities directly impacted by its operations.
8. Due diligence
OIL is committed to proactively conduct human rights due diligence. OIL prioritizes appropriate
actions to identify, prevent or mitigate human rights risk in its operations and supply chain.
9. Implementation & Reporting
Every OIL employee is responsible for ensuring compliance with this policy and preventing any
violations within their area of jurisdiction. Any employee found violating human rights in any manner
will be subject to disciplinary action as per OIL CDA Rules, 1982, applicable Standing Orders, and
other relevant regulations.
Progress on our commitments will be reported annually in our disclosures to ensure transparency and
accountability.
10. Review & monitoring
OIL will periodically review this policy and its implementation to ensure its effectiveness and
relevance. Third-party interventions may also be sought to assess compliance and adherence.
This policy has been approved by OIL’s competent authority and is publicly available across various
platforms, reaffirming OIL’s commitment to human rights.
