MyGov DOMESTIC TRAVEL POLICY

1. Applicability
All employees deputed at MyGov
2. General Principles
The following principles apply to business travel.
i. All business travels should be approved by the Head of Line of Business in
the format prescribed.
ii. All expenditure incurred while on tour should be within the entitlement
limits as defined in this Circular and in case of any deviation,
employees shall obtain a special approval from the Head of Line of
Business.
3. Classification of Cities
The cities in India arc classified as shown in the following table, for the purpose
of determination of limits on Stay Expenses and Daily Allowances admissible to
employees while on tour.

Classification of Cities
CITY A:

Ahmedabad
Bangalore
Calcutta
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Mumbai
Pune
All state capitals
CITY B:
All other cities other than A -class
cities

4. Authorization
The prior approval of the authorising manager in line with the approval
matrix is a pre-requisite for Business Travel

Approval Matrix
LEVELS Authorising
Managers
All Levels CEO MyGov

5. Mode of Travel

i. Entitlements of mode of travel shall be as given below:

Band Level Entitlement
Executive E1 & E2 Lowest Economy fare
(Preferably by a Low -
Cost Carrier/Budget
Airline)
Junior Management J1, J2 & J3 Normal Air Fare -
Economy (Y) Class
Middle Management M1, M2 & M3

-do-
Senior Management S1, S2 & S3 -do-
CEO Normal Air Fare -
Business (J) Class

ii. Employees are encouraged to avail Super Saver, Apex or any other
schemes offered by various airlines, so as to incur the lowest expenditure.
iii. On receiving the travel approval from the Authorising Manager, the
resource can book the tickets as per entitlements
iv. Preference will be given to low-cost carriers where special rates have been
negotiated.
v. E Tickets and Boarding Passes must be retained and attached to the
reimbursement claim.
vi. Ticket issued for business trips shall remain the property of the
organisation.
vii. Exchange of tickets for cash or for tickets of a lower value is an
unacceptable conduct.
6. Other modes of travel:
Train Travel
i. Resources are entitled to 2nd A/C train travel while undertaking a business
Travel.
ii. Train travel is the preferred mode if the journey to a particular destination
is not scheduled to take more than 4 -6 hours or can be concluded

overnight. Air Travel is the preferred mode only in the event of non -
availability of train route.
Road Travel
i. A business travel can be undertaken by road where the distance between
home and business destination does not exceed 200 kms, road routes are
safe and travel time is short.
ii. Prior written approval for road travel would be required in line with the
approval matrix.
iii. The resource may choose to drive his own vehicle, in which case he / she
will be entitled to claim expenses @ Rs.10 per km.
iv. Journey made through three wheelers (Auto rickshaw), motor bike etc.,
for short distances, would be at the prescribed & prevailing rates of auto
rickshaw under that particular state/area.
v. Journey made within the city by Uber/ Ola would be reimbursed as per
actuals on submission of their receipt.
7. Stay Expenses:
i. Stay Expenses include all expenses billed by the Hotel or Guest House
except telephone calls and consumption or alcohol
ii. The reimbursement will be at actual expenditure (supported by bills) or
maximum entitlement whichever is less.
iii. The maximum entitlement for Stay Expenses for employees traveling
outstation is specified below:
Band/ Level A Class city B Class City
Executive (E1 & E2) 3500/- 3000/-
Junior Management (J1,
J2 & J3)
5000/- 3500/-
Middle Management (M1,
M2 & M3)

6000/- 4000/-
Senior Management (S1,
S2 & S3)
8000/- 6000/-
CEO 10000/- 8000/-

In case the employee does not claim Stay Expenses. 100% extra DA shall be
paid over the normal DA rate as specified at Section 8(vi).

Daily Allowance (DA)
i. Daily Allowance is paid to employees only for outstation business travel in
lieu of food expenses.
ii. DA will be paid over and above the other entitlements
iii. The employee is entitled to 50% D.A. in case of
seminars/workshops/Training, where the organisers arrange for stay and
food.

iv. Entitlement is calculated from the scheduled time of departure of the
plane/train, bus at the headquarters.
v. A full day will be calculated as 24 hours and for any fraction of a day, the
following scale will apply:
Period DA Entitlement
Up to 12hrs 50% of DA
More than 12hrs 100% OF DA

vi. The maximum DA entitlements are specified below:

Band Level For all cities
Executive E1 & E2 500/-
Junior Management J1, J2 & J3 800/-
Middle Management M1, M2 & M3

900/-
Senior Management S1, S2 & S3 1000/-
CEO 1200/-
9. Local travel for business purposes
i. Local travel, both in -station and outstation is subject to the following
entitlements:
Band Level Entitlement
Executive E1, E2 Taxi
Junior Management J1, J2, J3 AC Car (Indigo or
Equivalent)
Middle Management

M1, M2, M3 -do-
Senior Management S1, S2, S3 AC Car (SUV or
Equivalent)
CEO -do-

ii. In case of travel by hired car (AC or Non -AC), the bills must be produced
to claim the reimbursements.
iii. Employees of the level of Middle Management and above are entitled to
engage a car on a continuous basis as required during tour outside Head
Quarters. All others are entitled to engage the car on a point -to-point
basis.
iv. Employees shall record the mileage travelled, on the trip sheet.
v. In case more than 3 resources are travelling together, SUV or similar
vehicle may be hired on need basis. The claim for this will be done on
actuals

10. Travel Advance
i. All employees are entitled to claim a Business Travel Advance equal to
90% of the indicative travel expense calculated based on their eligibility
criteria
ii. Employees should submit their travel claims within 10 working days after
completing each tour.
iii. Employees shall not be eligible for any further Travel Advance if they have
not settled the account of their two previous business travels.
iv. Employees who have drawn Travel Advance and fail to perform the
approved Travel for any reason shall refund the advance drawn forthwith
to MyGov failing which penal interest shall be leviable on the advance
drawn. Similarly un -utilised portion of advance shall be remitted back to
MyGov on return from Travel within 10 working days and thereafter
interest shall be leviable on such un-utilised advance.
