--- PAGE 1 ---
1  
 
BEML LIMITED, BENGALURU 
 
VIGIL MECHANISM / WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY 
 
1. PREFACE 
 
1.1 The provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the relevant rules there under, DPE 
Guidelines on Corporate Governance for CPSEs and the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (SEBI Listing Regulations) have mandated 
the establishment of the Vigil Mechanism / Whistle Blower Policy of the Company as 
detailed under: 
 
(i) Section 177 of the Companies Act, 2013 requires every listed company to establish a 
vigil mechanism for the directors and employees to report genuine concerns in such 
manner as may be prescribed. 
 
(ii) Rule 7 of the Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) Rul es, 2014, provides 
that every listed company shall establish a vigil mechanism for their directors and 
employees to report their genuine concerns or grievances. 
 
(iii) Regn. 4(2)(d)(iv) of the SEBI Listing Regulations provides that a listed entity shall 
devise a n effective whistle blower mechanism enabling stakeholders, including 
individual employees and their representative bodies, to freely communicate their 
concerns about illegal or unethical practices. 
 
(iv) DPE Guidelines on Corporate Governance for CPSEs provide s that the Audit 
Committee constituted by the Board has to review the functioning of the Whistle 
Blower Mechanism. Further, para 4.3 of the said guidelines empowered the Audit 
Committee to protect the whistle blowers. 
 
(v) As per the requirements of SEBI’s cir cular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD -
2/P/CIR/2021/562 dated 10/05/2021, this vigil mechanism is extended to Directors, 
Key Management Personnel, Employees and Workers 
 
1.2 As per the requirements under SEBI Listing Regulations and DPE Guidelines on 
Corporate Governance f or CPSEs, the Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for 
Directors, Executive Directors and Chief General Managers of the Company (“the Code”), 
which lays down the principles and standards that should govern their actions in the conduct 
of business of the Company. The said Code is also placed on the website of the Company. 
Further, all the employees of the Company are expected to adhere to the standing orders 
and ‘Conduct, Discipline and Appeal (CDA) Rules’ which encompass the ethical and moral

--- PAGE 2 ---
2  
practices in their conduct relating to the business of the Company. 
 
1.3 Any actual or potential violation of the Code, howsoever insignificant or perceived as 
such, is a matter of serious concern for the Company. Hence, a vigil mechanism is required 
to be established to enable the directors and employees to bring to the knowledge of the 
management violation, if any, in the code of conduct and ethical behaviour  of fellow 
employee in his / her conducting the business of the Company. Such a vigil mechanism 
shall also provide for adequate safeguards against victimization of persons who use such 
mechanism and also make provision for direct access to the chairperson of the Audit 
Committee in appropriate or exceptional cases. 
 
2. POLICY 
 
In compliance with the above requirements, BEML Limited, (BEML), being a Listed 
Company, has established a Vigil (Whistle Blower) Mechanism and formulated a Policy in 
order to provide a framework for responsible and secure whistle blowing / vigil mechanism 
as duly approved by the Board of Directors by way of circulation on 04.03.2016 and 
amended by Board in its 394th meeting held on 23.03.2023. 
 
3. POLICY OBJECTIVES 
 
3.1 The Vigil (Whistle Blower) Mechanism aims to provide a channel to the Directors, Key 
Management Personnel, Employees and Workers  to report genuine concerns about 
unethical behaviour, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the Codes of Conduct. 
 
3.2 The Company is committed to adhere to the highest standards of ethical, moral and 
legal conduct of business operations and in order to maintain these standards, the Company 
encourages its employees who have genuine concerns about suspected misconduct to come 
forward and express these concerns without fear of punishment or unfair treatment. 
 
3.3 The mechanism provides for adequate safeguards against victimization of Directors, 
Key Management Personnel, Employees and Workers  to avail of the mechanism and also 
provide for direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee in exceptional cases. 
 
3.4 This neither releases employees from their duty of confidentiality in the course of their 
work nor can it be used as a route for raising malicious or unfounded allegations on personal 
grounds. 
 
4. DEFINITIONS 
 
4.1 “Audit Committee” means the Audit Committee constituted by the Board of Directors 
of the Company in accordance with Section 177 of the Companies Act, 2013 and read with 
Regn. 18 of SEBI Listing Regulations and the DPE Guidelines on Corporate Governance.

--- PAGE 3 ---
3  
If the Audit Committee of the Company  is not in place du e to any reason, then the CMD 
will nominate  one of the Directors  to discharge the  functions of  the Chairman, Audit 
Committee, under this policy. 
4.2 “Competent Authority ” means the Chairman & Managing Director (CMD) or any 
Functional Director nominated by CMD to receive and deal with complaint under this policy 
from time to time. 
 
4.3 “Complaint” means a complaint made under this policy which discloses information 
which may be treated as evidence of unethical behaviour, actual or suspected fraud, or 
violation of the Company’s general guidelines on conduct and ethics as prescribed in the 
BEML Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Rules / Standing Orders. 
 
4.4 “Employee/ worker” means any person (including an apprentice) in the employment 
of the Company (whether working in India or abroad), including the Directors on the Board 
of the Company  to do any manual, unskilled, skilled, technical, operational, clerical or 
supervisory work, for hire or reward, terms of employment be express or implied and 
includes any such person who has been dismissed, discharged or retrenched in connection 
with, or as a consequence of dispute. 
 
4.5 “Key Management Persons” means CEO, CS, Whole -Time Director, CFO, such 
other officer as may be prescribed by the company 
 
4.6 “Code” means the BEML Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management at 
the level of Executive Directors and Chief General Managers. For Executives in  Grade I 
to Gr.VIII Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Rules and for all employees as per Standing 
Orders of the Company. 
 
4.7 “Investigator(s)” me an those person(s) authorised, appointed, consulted or 
approached by the Competent Authority / Chairman, Audit Committee in connection with 
conducting investigation into a complaint and includes the Auditors of the Company and 
the Police. 
 
4.8 “Protected Disclosure” means a written communication of a concern made in good 
faith, which discloses or demonstrates information that may evidence an unethical or 
improper activity. It should be factual and not speculative and should contain as much 
specific information as possible to allow for proper assessment of the  nature and extent of 
the concern. 
 
4.9 “Subject” means a person or group of persons against or in relation to whom a 
Protected Disclosure is made or evidence gathered during the course of an investigation. 
 
4.10 “Screening Committee” means a Committee constituted under this Policy by the 
Competent Authority. The Screening Committee will consist a Chairman and four members 
nominated by the Competent Authority.

--- PAGE 4 ---
4  
 
4.11 “Whistle Blower” is a Director or employee / executive who makes a Protected 
Disclosure under this Policy and also referred in this policy as complainant. 
 
5. SCOPE 
 
5.1 This Policy is an extension of the Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior 
Management Personnel. The Whistle Blower’s role is that of a reporting party with reliable 
information. They are not required or expected to act as investigators or finders of facts, nor 
would they determine the appropriate corrective or remedial action that may be warranted 
in a given case. 
5.2 Whistle Blowers should not act on their own in conducting any investigative 
activities, nor do they have a right to participate in any investigative activities other than as 
authorized by the Chairman of the Audit Committee or the Investigators. 
5.3 Protected Disclosure will be appropriately d ealt with by the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee, as the case may be. 
 
6. ELIGIBILITY 
 
All Directors and Employees of the Company are eligible to make Protected Disclosures 
under the Policy in relation to matters concerning the Company. 
7. PROCEDURE 
 
7.1 All Protected Disclosures should be addressed to the Competent Authority 
(cmd@beml.co.in) and Chairman of the Audit Committee in exceptional cases. 
 
7.2 If a protected disclosure is received by any executive of the Company other than 
Chairman of Audit Committee, the same should be forwarded to the Competent Authority 
for further appropriate action. Appropriate care must be taken to keep the identity of the 
Whistle Blower confidential. 
 
7.3 All Protected Disclosures should be reported in writing by  the complainant as soon as 
possible, not later than 30 days after the Whistle Blower becomes aware of the same and 
should either be typed or written in a legible handwriting in English or Hindi or local 
language as applicable. 
 
7.4 The Protected Disclosure should be submitted under a covering letter signed by the 
complainant in a closed and secured envelope and should be super scribed as “Protected 
disclosure under the Whistle Blower policy” or sent through email with the subject 
“Protected disclosure under the Whistle Blower policy” to the Competent Authority and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee, who in turn refer the complaint to the Screening 
Committee after concealing the identity of the whistle blower. If the complaint is not super-
scribed and closed as mentioned above, the protected disclosure will be dealt wi th as if a

--- PAGE 5 ---
5  
normal disclosure. 
 
7.5 The contact details of the Chairman of Screening Committee are as under:- 
 
Director – HR 
BEML Limited 
BEML Soudha, No.23/1, 4th Main, S.R. Nagar, 
Bangalore – 560 027 
Email – whistle_blower@beml.co.in 
7.6 In order to protect the identity of the complainant, acknowledgement will not be issued 
to the complainants. 
 
7.7 Anonymous / Pseudonymous disclosure shall not be entertained. 
 
8. INVESTIGATION 
8.1 The Screening Committee upon receipt of the complaint may make discreet inquiry to 
ascertain whether there is any basis for proceeding further to investigate the complaint. If 
the Screening Committee is of the opinion that there are no sufficient grounds for 
proceeding further on the complaint, it shall recommend closure of the matter. 
8.2 The Screening Committee shall make the recommendations ordinarily within one 
week from the date of receipt of the complaint. In the absence of any member(s), the 
available member(s) of the committee shall make the recommendations. 
8.3 If the Screening Committee, as a result of the discreet inquiry or otherwise, is of the 
opinion that the complaint requires further investigation, it will make a recommendation to 
forward the complaint to the Investigator(s) for further investigation. On receipt of the 
recommendation, the Competent Authority and the Chairman, Audit Committee as the case 
may be shall forward the complaint to the Investigator(s) for further investigation and 
report. 
 
8.4 In case of any conflict of interest between the subject matter of the complaint and 
Competent Authority or member(s) of the Screening Committee, investigators shall derive 
their authority and access rights from the Chairman of Audit Committee when acting within 
the course and scope of their investigation. 
 
8.5 Technical and other resources may be drawn upon as necessary to augment the 
investigation. All Investigators shall be independent and unbiased both in fact and as 
perceived. Investigators have a duty of fairness, objectivity, thoroughness, ethical 
behaviour, and observance of legal and professional standards. 
 
8.6 Investigations will be launched only after a preliminary review by the Competent 
Authority and Chairman of the Audit Committee which establishes that:

--- PAGE 6 ---
6  
i) the alleged act constitutes an improper or unethical activity or conduct, and 
 
ii) the allegation is supported by information specific enough to be investigated or in 
cases where the allegation is not supported by specific information, it is felt that the 
concerned matter is worthy of management review. Provided that such investigation 
should not be undertaken as an investigation of an improper or unethical activity or 
conduct. 
 
8.7 The Competent Authority and the Chairman, Audit Committee, if deems fit, may call 
for further information or particulars from the complainant and at its discretion, consider  
involving any other / additional Officer of the Company and / or Committee and / or an outside agency 
for the purpose of investigation. 
8.8 The Whistle Blower should give his name, address, contact number(s) and e -mail 
address in the beginning or at the end of complaint or in an attached letter so that the same 
can be concealed, while processing further. The identity  of a Subject and the  Whistle 
Blower will be kept confidential to the extent possible given the legitimate needs of law 
and the investigation. 
8.9 Subjects will normally be informed of the allegations at the outset of a formal 
investigation and have opportunities for providing their inputs during the investigation. 
8.10 Subjects shall have a duty to co-operate with the Investigators during investigation to 
the extent that such co -operation will not compromise self -incrimination protections 
available under the applicable laws. 
8.11 Subjects have a right to consult with a person or persons of their choice, other than 
the Investigators and/or members of the Screening Committee / Audit Committee and/or 
the Whistle Blower. Subjects shall be free at any  time to engage counsel at their own cost 
to represent them in the investigation proceedings. However, if the allegations against the 
subject are not sustainable, then the Company may see reason to reimburse such costs. 
8.12 Subjects have a responsibility not to interfere with the inve stigation. Evidence shall 
not be withheld, destroyed or tampered with, and witnesses shall not be influenced, 
coached, threatened or intimidated by the Subjects. 
8.13 Unless there are compelling reasons not to do so, subjects will be given the 
opportunity to re spond to material findings contained in an investigation report. No 
allegation of wrongdoing against a Subject shall be considered as maintainable unless there 
is good evidence in support of the allegation. 
8.14 Subjects have a right to be informed of the outco me of the investigation. If 
allegations are not sustained, the Subject should be consulted as to whether public 
disclosure of the investigation results would be in the best interest of the Subject and the 
Company.

--- PAGE 7 ---
7  
8.15 The investigation by itself would not tantamount to an accusation and is to be treated 
as a neutral fact finding process. 
8.16 The investigation shall be completed normally within 90 days of the receipt of the 
protected disclosure and is extendable by such period as the Audit Committee deems fit. 
8.17 Any member of the Board or other officer having any conflict of interest with the 
matter shall disclose his / her concern / interest forthwith and shall not deal with the matter. 
 
9. DECISION 
 
If an investigation leads to a conclusion that an improper or unethical act has been 
committed, the Chairman of the Audit Committee shall recommend to the Board of 
Directors of the Company to take such disciplinary or corrective action as it may deem fit. 
Any disciplinary or corrective action initiated against the Subject as a result of the findings 
of an investigation pursuant to this Policy shall adhere to the applicable  personnel or staff 
conduct and disciplinary procedures as per Company rules. 
 
10. REPORTING 
 
10.1 A quarterly report with number of complaints received under the Policy and their 
outcome shall be placed before the Audit Committee and the Board by the Chairman of the 
Screening Committee. 
 
10.2 A complainant who makes false allegations of unethical and improper practices  or 
about alleged wrongful conduct of the Subject to the Investigators or the Audit Committee 
shall be subject to appropriate disciplinary action in accordance with the rules, procedures 
and policies of the Company. 
 
11. CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
The complainant, Investigators, Members of Audit Committee, the Subject and everybody 
involved in the process shall, maintain confidentiality of all matters under this Policy, 
discuss only to the extent or with those persons as required under this policy for completing 
the process of investigations and keep the papers in safe custody. 
 
12. PROTECTION 
 
12.1 No unfair treatment will be meted out to a Whistle Blower by virtue of his / her 
having reported a Protected Disclosure under this policy. Adequate safeguards against 
victimisation of complainants shall be provided. The Company, as a policy, condemns any 
kind of discrimination, harassment, victimization or any other unfair employment practice 
being adopted against Whistle Blowers. Complete protection will, therefore, be given  to 
Whistle Blowers  against any unfair practice like retaliation, threat or intimidation of

--- PAGE 8 ---
8  
termination/suspension of service, disciplinary action, transfer, demotion, refusal of 
promotion, or the like including any direct or indirect use of authority to obstruct  the 
Whistle Blower’s right to continue to perform his duties/functions including making further 
Protected Disclosure. The  Company will take  steps to minimize difficulties,  which the 
Whistle Blower may experience as a result of making the Protected Disclosure. 
 
12.2 A Whistle Blower may report any violation of the above clause to the Chairman of 
the Audit Committee, who shall investigate into the same and recommend suitable action 
to the management. 
 
12.3 The identity of the Whistle Blower shall be kept confidential to the extent possible 
and permitted under law. Any other employee assisting in the said investigation shall also 
be protected to the same extent as the Whistle Blower. 
 
12.4 Whistle Blower should not enter into any correspondence with the Competent 
Authority and Chairman, Audit Committee in their own interest. If any further clarification 
is required, the Whistle Blower will be contacted. 
 
13. DISQUALIFICATIONS 
 
13.1 While it will be ensured that genuine Whistle Blowers are accorded complete 
protection from any kind of unfair treatment as herein set out, any abuse of this protection 
will warrant disciplinary action. 
 
13.2 Protection under this Policy would not mean protection from disciplinary action 
arising out of false or bogus allegations made by a Whistle Blower knowing i t to be false 
or bogus or with a mala fide intention. 
 
13.3 Whistle Blowers, who make any Protected Disclosures, which have been 
subsequently found to be mala fide or malicious or Whistle Blowers who makes Protected 
Disclosures for the first time, which have been subsequently found to be frivolous, baseless 
or reported otherwise than in good faith, will be disqualified from reporting further 
Protected Disclosures under this Policy and also shall be liable to be prosecuted. 
 
14. ACCESS TO CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 
 
14.1 The Whistle Blower shall have right to access Chairman of the Audit Committee 
directly in exceptional cases and the Chairman of the Audit Committee is authorized to 
prescribe suitable directions in this regard.

--- PAGE 9 ---
9  
14.2 The contact details of the Chairman of the Audit Committee are as under: 
 
The Chairman – Audit Committee 
Company Secretariat 
‘BEML Soudha’, No.23/1, 
4th Main, S.R. Nagar, 
Bangalore - 560027 
e-mail : chairmanacwb@gmail.com 
 
15. COMMUNICATION 
 
Directors and Employees shall be informed of the Policy by issuing a circular, publishing 
on the notice board and the website of the Company. The name, address, contact number 
(s) and e-mail address of the Competent Authority and Chairman, Audit Committee will be 
notified from time to time. 
 
16. RETENTION OF DOCUMENTS 
 
All Protected disclosures in writing or documented along with the results of Investigation 
relating thereto, shall be retained by the Company for a period of 5 (five) years or such 
other period as specified by any other law in force, whichever is more. 
 
17. AMENDMENT 
 
The Company reserves its right to amend or modify this Policy in whole or in part, or repeal 
at any time without assigning any reason whatsoever. However, no such amendment or 
modification will be binding on the directors and employees unless the same is 
communicated in the manner described as above. 
 
*****