--- PAGE 1 ---
1 | P a g e  
DAV UNIVERSITY, JALANDHAR 
Human Resource Manual 
Vol. 01 
Human Resource Division,
 DAV UNIVERSITY, JALANDHAR

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 | P a g e  
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
SECTION -1: INTRODUCTION Page 
   
A About DAV University  5 
B Our Vision 5 
C Our Mission 5 
D Our Objective 5-6 
E Code of Conduct 6-8 
F Do’s & Don’ts at DAV University 8-9 
G Confidentiality Policy 9 
   
SECTION -2:  WORK PLACE GUIDELINES Page 
A University Timings & Working Hours 10 
B Attendance 10 
C Security Norms & Emergency Contact Details 10-11 
D Visitor/Guest Management 11 
E Health, Hygiene & Safety 11 
E Sexual Harassment Policy 11-13 
G 
 
University Protection Policy: 
 
(i) Reporting Responsibility 
(ii) No Retaliation 
(iii) Reporting violations 
(iv) Acting in good faith 
(v) Confidentiality  
Page 
 
13 
13-14 
14 
14 
14 
H Holidays 14 
I 
Leave Rules 
 
1. Eligibility 
2. Type of leaves 
3. Leave rules 
4. Academic / Duty / Special Leave 
5. General rules regarding leaves 
6. Procedure for applying for leave 
7. Authority, empowered to grant leave 
8. Power to refuse/ revoke/ recall leave 
9. Commencement & termination of leave 
10. Leave without pay 
11. Combination of leave 
12. Absent without Leave – Without sanction or after expiry of leave 
13. Early return from leave 
14. Obligation to furnish updated Address/ Contact details while 
applying/ proceeding on leave 
15. Leave entitlement on employee suspension 
16. Maintenance of Leave records 
17. Pay during leave 
 
 
Page 
 
 
15 
15 
15 & 16 
16 & 17 
18 
18 
18 
18-19 
19 
19 
19 
19 
19 
 
20 
20 
20 
20

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 | P a g e  
 
 
 
 
 
J Business Cards 20 
K 
 
Travel (TA / DA) Policy 
 
1. Categorization of employees  
2. Classification of cities 
3. Daily Allowance (DA)/ Hotel Rates (Hotel rates for Punjab only) 
4. Travel Entitlement by Rail/Air 
5. Journey by Road 
6. Accommodation/ Hotel Rates (Out Side Punjab) 
7. Guidelines / General Conditions  
Page 
 
21 
21 
22 
22 
22-23 
24 
24 
   
L 
IT & Social Media Policy: 
 
1. Detailed Guidelines for Computer, Internet/ Intranet browser(s) usage 
2. Creation of official Email ID 
3. Ownership and access of electronic mail and documents 
4. Electronic mail tampering 
5. Rules for electronic communications 
6. Data/ Email handling 
7. Downloading software 
8. New software purchase 
9. Loss/ damage of college asset 
10. IT related Purchase policy 
11. Data security 
12. Database backup 
13. Security Guidelines 
a. Internet connection usage 
b. Asset control 
c. Access rights & firewall 
d. System update 
e. User rights 
f. Application installation/ implementation 
g. Guidelines for usage of mobile connection/ Landline 
 
 
 
Page 
 
25-26 
26 
26 
26-27 
27 
27 
27 
27 
27 
28 
28 
28 
28 
28 
28 
29 
29 
29 
29 
29 
 
 
 
SECTION-3: EMPLOYEE SERVICE AND CONDUCT RULES Page 
A 
 
 
 
1) Short Tile & Commencement 
2) Definitions & Interpretations  
3) Age Limit for Appointment to the Posts 
4) Methods and Procedure of Recruitment 
5) Procedure of Appointment of Teaching Staff 
6) Special Mode of Appointment 
7) Communication of Sanctions 
8) Fitness 
 
 
30 
30-31 
31 
31 
31 
32 
32 
32

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 | P a g e  
 
9) Probation 
10) Date of reckoning pay and allowances 
11) Retirement 
12) Discontinuation, termination and resignation from service 
13) Service Book 
14) Personal Files 
15) Annual Confidential Reports 
32 
33 
33 
33 
33-34 
34 
34

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 | P a g e  
 
SECTION – 1 
INTRODUCTION 
 
A) ABOUT US 
 
DAV University, Jalandhar was establi shed in 2013 under the aegis of DAV College Man aging 
Committee, New Delhi. DAV College Managing Committee is India's single largest non -government 
educational organization managing more than 900 institutions in the country. It has been providing 
students w ith an excellent education in modern academic e nvironment. The University has been 
established by a Legislative Act of the Punjab Government and empowered to confer degrees under 
Section 22 of the UGC Act 1956. It is a multi -disciplinary institution, home to faculties of teaching 
excellence in subjects  from engineering to management to languages to natural sciences including 
physical and life sciences. DAV University is spread across an area of about 72 acres and it provides 
an ideal ambience for pursuing p rofessional courses and ensuring all -round deve lopment of 
students. The campus is well equipped with modern infrastructure to cater to the needs of the 
students. Playgrounds, sports and fitness facilities add to the quality of life on the campus. DAV 
University is the best university in Punjab in terms of quality education and student support.  
 
DAV University aims to contribute to the society by laying a strong emphasis on research in various 
inter-disciplinary domains that can be beneficial for mankind. D AV University aspires to provide a 
strong platf orm to the students to make them proficient, motivated engineers, technocrats, 
entrepreneurs and scientists of the future while inculcating human values, ethics and concern for the 
environment and the society. 
 
B) VISION 
 
• To ardently seek, consider and impl ement latest nuances, developments and innovations in 
Sciences, Languages, Engineering and Technology, Business Studies and Computer Sciences in order 
to ensure that students develop a holistic acumen for maki ng strategic and judicious decisions in the 
local and global spectra. 
 
• To harness and transform natural, human and technological resources to ensure sustainable 
development, so that they enhance, enrich and bequest human life with imagination, skills and  
vision. Thereby, they become instrumental in the integral development of society and mankind. 
 
C) MISSION 
 
• To facilitate our stakeholders to have a broad, encompassing access to knowledge & education and 
to assist individuals unravel deeper dimensions of learning & experimentation. 
 
• To enable student s become imaginative, integrated beings who constructively and creatively 
contribute to environment and society and who play a vital role in the advancement of learning and 
understanding. 
 
D) OBJECTIVES  
 
• To provide an academically ambient environment for its stakeholders. 
• To develop scientifically superior, socially awake, and responsible citizens. 
• To generate industry-oriented competent manpower to meet the needs of globalization. 
• To provide state-of-the-art equipment for R&D facilities in the university. 
• To provide effective linkage between industry and university for sponsored research and 
consultancy.

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 | P a g e  
 
• To ensure regular up-gradation of knowledge and skills of the faculty. 
• To attain National and International accreditations. 
• To develop centers of excellence in the emerging areas of science and technology. 
• Merging of knowledge with the spirit of good ethics, values and Vedic teachings. 
 
E) CODE OF CONDUCT 
 
Employees are expected to adhere to the hig hest standards of personal, professional and bu siness 
ethics, and to always use good judgment about the way they conduct themselves when doing their 
work and representing DAV University, Jalandhar . The University’s success is undermined by 
unethical conduct. Our standards require careful observance of the spirit and letter of all applicable 
policies, procedures, laws and regulations, as well as a scrupulous regard for the highest standards of 
conduct and personal integrity. 
 
DAV University, Jalandhar will comply with all applicable policies, procedures,  laws and regulations, 
and expects its directors, officers, and employees to conduct themselves in accordance with the 
letter, spirit, and intent of all relevant laws and to refrain from any illegal, dishonest , or unethical 
conduct. Compliance with this policy of personal, professional and business ethics and conduct is the 
responsibility of every University employee. 
 
 
1) Compliance with Laws and Regulations, Rules and Policies 
 
Employees and individuals represen ting DAV University, Jalandhar , must transact University in compliance 
with all Central, State and Local laws and regulations related to their positions and areas of responsibility , 
including, but not limited to, equal employment opportunity, fair employme nt practices, and non 
discrimination laws; laws  regarding the privacy and confidentiality of employee and student records; laws 
regarding workplace safety and occupational health; and laws regarding antitrust and recording of financial 
transactions. All employees and individuals representing the University should recognize that noncompliance 
may have adverse financial and other disciplinary consequences for them and for the University. Individuals 
are responsible for keeping current with changes in applicab le laws and regulations, and Incharges and 
Coordinators are responsible for monitoring compliance in their areas. 
 
2) Conflict of Interest  
 
A conflict of interest exists when a University member or a member of their family is in the position to benefit 
personally, directly or indirectly, from their dealings with an organization or person conducting business with 
the University.   
 
All decisions and actions by University employees in the course of their professional responsibilities are to be 
made in a manner which promotes the best interests of the  University. It is the University’s intent to avoid 
conflicts between the personal interests of employees and the interests of the University. In the event that a 
University member may have a financial, personal or p rofessional interest that could potentially cre ate a 
conflict of interest (or the perception of one) in any decision or transaction involving the University, the 
employee must do the following:  
 
• Disclose clearly and fully in writing to the immediate HOD w ith the nature of the decision or transaction a nd 
the potential conflict of interest.   
• Refrain from participation (acting individually or as a member of a group) in the University’s consideration of 
the transaction or the processing of the transaction.  
• No gifts or services from vendors should be accepted.

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 | P a g e  
 
3) Consulting and Outside Employment  
 
If a person is a full-time employee of the University, the employee’s main employment responsibility is to DAV 
University, Jalandhar. Prior to the commencement of any outside employment or consulting engagements that 
may appear to involve a conflict of interest with the University responsibilities or that may compromise the 
University’s relationship with the outside employer or consulting client, approval must be obtained in advance 
from the University Authorities. 
 
 
4) Non Competition Obligation 
 
During the period of your employment with DAV University, Jalandhar and after its termination or expiry 
for any reason whatsoever, you will not either directly or indirectly,  independently, jointly, or in 
conjunction with , any other person(s) or affiliate, in any manner whatsoever, anywhere in the world, 
including as an employee, principal, agent, director, proprietor, member, partner, representative, 
shareholder, manager, emp loyee, trustee, consultant, adviser, financier,  administrator and/or in any 
other like capacity: disclose any Confidential Information or trade secrets of DAV University to any third 
party, including, without limitation, any competitors of DAV University, or make any commercial use of 
such Confidential  Information or trade secrets, or use it for the benefit of yourself or any third party 
(including, without limitation, any competitors of DAV University), or to the detriment of DAV University, 
or disclose to  anyone the identities and other related inform ation of any of  DAV University ’ 
clients/vendors/associates; or solicit, approach, canvass, enter into discussions or negotiations with or 
enter into any relationship, arrangement or understanding with, any emp loyees, advisors, consultants, 
contractors/sub-contractors, clients, customers, suppliers, or partners of DAV University, Jalandhar. 
 
During the course of the employment at  DAV University, Jalandhar , you will not be engaged directly or 
indirectly as an emp loyee or in any other capacity in any competiti on whatsoever with the organization 
and / or its associated entities. 
 
5) Intellectual Property Rights and Copyright Ownership  
 
DAV University, Jalandhar , respects the ownership of intellectual material governed  by copyright laws. 
University Employees are ex pected to comply with the copyright laws and provisions of the licensing 
agreements that apply to software, p rinted and electronic materials . Use of the University’s seal  and 
letterhead is restricted . Question s regarding use of the seal and letterhead shou ld be referred to the 
University Authorities.  
 
6) Proper Use of University Property and Funds  
 
All equipment and material is the property and/or the responsibility of DAV University, Jalandhar unless 
otherwise clearly indicated. All employees must ensure th at University resources are used only for intended 
purposes. University employees have an obligation to manage the University ’s resources prudently, with a 
responsibility to those who provide those resources, including students, parents, alumni . University 
employees are responsible for safeguarding the tangible and intangible assets of the University that are 
under their control. University resources may not be used to make contributions to candidates for publi c 
office, to political parties, or to other pol itical organizations that are organized primarily to accept 
contributions for the purpose of influencing the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any 
individual to central, state, or local public  office. This equipment and material is to be u tilized in the most 
effective and efficient manner possible towards the accomplishment of university goals and objectives .  
University resources may not be converted to personal use, either for oneself or another person.  
 
7) Accuracy of Records and Reporting – Financial & Academic 
 
The records, data and information owned, used, and managed by the University must be accurate and 
complete. The accuracy and reliability of financial and academic reports is of the utm ost importance to the

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 | P a g e  
 
business & academic operation of the  University. University employees must record, allocate and charge 
costs/fees accurately and maintain documentation as required by established policies and procedures  
approved from time to time by t he University Authorities. All reports, includi ng travel/reimbursable, bills, 
invoices, payroll information, personnel records and other essential business records, must be prepared with 
care and honesty. All employees responsible for accounting and record -keeping must fully disclose and 
record all assets, liabilities or both, and must exercise due diligence in enforcing these requirements.   
 
8) Acceptable Use of Campus Network and Computing System  
 
It is the responsibility of each member of the University to use the services provided by the University 's 
campus network and computing systems appropriately and in compliance with all  University, city, county, 
state, and central laws and regulations. This policy covers all persons accessing a computer, 
telecommunications or network resource at DAV University, Jalandhar, including the campus data network, 
electronic mail, file sharing, printing, world -wide web services, telephone services and cable television.  
University computing systems are University resources and are provided to University employees for 
business purposes.  Computers and the information contained on them are the property of the University 
and may be accessed by University officials at anytime. University policy and relevant laws apply to use of 
the University's network and computing services . Actions that are unacceptable in the University are also 
unacceptable on the network, computing systems and other electronic services including the following:  
 
• Harassment in any form. 
• Failure to respect the rights and property of others. 
• Forgery or other misrepresentation of one's identity. 
• Accessing inappropriate materials/contents. 
• Downloading and distribution of copyrighted materials without the permission of the copyright  
               owner. 
 
9) Reporting Suspected Violations or Concerns  
 
DAV University, Jalandhar, Ethics Code compliance efforts focus on teaching University employees standards 
that require adherence. Neve rtheless, violations may occur. University  Employees should report suspected 
violations or concerns about these standards promptly to one of the following University offices:  Human 
Resources, Incharge, Coordinator,  University Authorities. Reports are made anonymously to this number, 
unless the caller wishes to leave their contact informa tion. The University will investigate claims of  
inappropriate activities, including informing the University Authorities of claims related to the misuse of 
University assets and vi olation of compliance laws. The University will protect from retaliation  against 
anyone who makes an effort in good faith to appropriately disclose perceived wrongdoing.  
 
10) Consequences of Violation  
 
Any non-compliance of the above code of conduct, any other related University policies, non-performance or 
insubordination will be c onsidered as a  gross violation under the Univer sity’s established disciplinary 
practices and procedures and may carry disciplinary consequences, up to and including dismissal from 
employment. Also note that any s uch violations may also subject individuals to financial and legal action in 
state or central courts. 
 
F) DO’s and DON’Ts at DAV University 
 
Here are a few general rules and principles an employee of DAV University is expected to remain mindful of: 
- 
ALWAYS 
 
✓ Conducts themselves in accordance with the highest, ethical standards, remembering that the      
               definition of a Professional is that of a person who places the students interests above that of  
               personal financial gain

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 | P a g e  
 
✓ Professional and business email etiquette and responsibility are expected of all teaching, admin      
               and technical staff members. Internal communication between employees is strictly for internal  
               use and must not be forwarded or shared with persons outside. Also when communicating with  
               outsiders, email to internal colleagues must be marked with discretion and should be on strictly  
               need basis 
✓ Concern and respect towards Seniors in the University 
✓ Pleasant, tactful and considerate in manner, remembering to lead rather than drive people 
✓ Wishes all seniors and colleagues 
✓ Neatly dressed and groomed 
✓ Remembers that the students ultimate benefit is more important than their possible – interim  
               annoyance 
✓ On schedule and requests assistance when falling behind is anticipated 
✓ Carry notebook to be used taking notes at Senior’s cabin 
✓ Quick to respond to students queries or messages 
✓ Stays out of politics 
✓ Tries to put themselves in the other person’s place when exist differences of opinion 
 
NEVER 
 
✓ Promise more than what is expected to be delivered 
✓ Lie or misrepresent anything, either to students, subordinates or superiors 
✓ Acts on – primary reactions – always considers the consequences of any stand or action,  
✓ checks themselves when necessary 
✓ Fails to communicate – any type of reports 
✓ Criticizes surroundings, local habits, foods 
✓ Never say ‘No’ when a work/ additional work is assigned to you by seniors. 
 
G) CONFIDENTIALITY POLICY 
 
Owing to the nature of work, many employees would be handling confidential  information that is critical for 
the University. Integrity being the bottom -line of all transactions, our team nurtures ethical work habits. In 
consonance with that, the University believes in maintaining the sanctity of confidential information.  
 
GUIDELINES 
• To ensure the sanctity of confidential inf ormation, each employee will ensure the safekeeping of all 
official documents, records or notes in whatever manner (including matter stored in computer 
memory or in any digital form ) for which  they are  responsible. In the same spirit, they will also 
endeavor to ensure the safe custody of all files, folders, discs or documents that are transported 
outside the office. 
• The employees will make every other such effort, not mentioned in this manual, to maintain this 
confidentiality. 
• The discipline of confidential ity is best when it is self -imposed. Therefore, the attempt of the 
University will be to make people aware of lack of confidentiality or indiscretion rather than impose 
penalties. But in the event that there is a breach of confidentiality leading to the leak of any sensitive 
information, it may lead to termination of the concerned employee, if  they are proved responsible 
for such breach. 
• Any employee, who has reason to believe that the confidentiality of the University is being violated, 
should immediately bring it to the notice of the concerned HR Department. 
• Right of confidential information always rests with the University and supersedes any separation.

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 | P a g e  
 
SECTION – 2 
WORKPLACE GUIDELINES 
 
A) UNIVERSITY TIMINGS & WORKING HOURS 
 
TIMINGS 
Category Work Week Work Hours Lunch  Hour Offs Days 
Teaching & 
Non-Teaching 
Staff 
Monday – 
Saturday 
(except 1st & 
3rd Saturdays) 
8 hours 30 minutes lunch break 
(between 01:30 PM - 2.00 PM) 
1st & 3rd 
Saturday’s 
and all 
Sundays in a 
month 
 
 
❖ Keeping in view the exigency of th e work, employees may be asked to come on holidays, at the 
discretion of University Authorities and compensatory leaves are given in lieu of that. 
 
❖ There is a staggered lunch break of 1.30 pm to 2.00 pm and 2. 00 pm to 2.30 pm to ensure continued 
smooth functioning of all departments even during lunch time. 
 
B) ATTENDANCE 
 
❖ Marking attendance: All the employees are required to mark their attendance on arrival and while 
leaving the University, through bio-matrix system / manual on attendance registers. 
 
❖ Official duty (OD): Employees on official duty (outside University), must inform their Immediate 
Reporting manager/HOD in writing, get the same approved from their duty leave sanctioning 
authority and submit a copy to HR. 
 
To maintain discipline in the University we also have defined guidelines for tardiness, which are as 
follows: 
 
1. Punctuality: All employees must be punctual at work. 
 
2. Late Coming: Employees must report on duty as per the working hours mentioned above wi th 
the following exceptions: - 
 
a. Late Coming: A grace period of 10 minutes in reporting time may be  considered up to a 
maximum of 2 times in a month. 
b. Late coming beyond grace period:  Post the above, if an employee is c oming late to 
work, their half day leave will be deducted (if balance leaves are available otherwise half 
day salary will be deducted). 
 
Any employee who is consistently late is to be informed to Reporting Head/HOD and 
Coordinator by HR-In-Charge. 
 
 
C) SECURITY NORMS/EMERGENCY CONTACT DETAILS 
 
▪ ID Cards: Employees must wear their ID cards at all times when they are in University 
▪  premises. Employee must fully cooperate and show their ID cards to security staff for any kind 
of inspection.

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 | P a g e  
 
▪ Emergency numbers: A list of important Telephone Nos. such as Hospitals, Fire Station, and 
Police Station is available with HR  department. List of emergency contact details of Employees 
will be available with the HR department. 
 
D) VISITOR/GUEST MANAGEMENT 
 
This policy is applicable to each and every individual visiting  University premises except the 
employees & the University Authorities. However, this policy is  applicable on all ex-employee of the 
University. 
  
General Guidelines: - 
 
❖ Prior appointment: All employees need to ensure that any visitor coming to meet them takes 
prior appointment as far as possible. 
❖ Visitor Pass: The Security deputed at the main gate will issue a visitor pass to the concerned 
and will pen -down the entry and purpose for visiting the University. The Visitor’s Vehicle 
Registration Number will be entered in the Register for record purpose. 
❖ Vigilant: Upon observing an unescorted non -employee visitor or a visitor acting 
inappropriately in University premises, employees must immediately notify at security 
room/reception. 
❖ DAV University, Jalandhar reserves the rights of admission for any visitor. 
 
E) HEALTH, HYGIENE & SAFETY 
 
• The University provides a clean, safe and healthy place to work.  
• Employees are expected to follow their part in helping to maintain Safety and Health 
standards, work safely, wear safety equipment when required, observe safety rules and keep 
their work place whether in University or client premises neat and clean. 
• University being a tobacco free campus does not allow any sort of smoking and consumption 
of tobacco products, alcohol and any other intoxicant as the same is strictly prohibited in the 
entire campus.  
 
F) SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY (email id: shebox@davuniversity.org) 
 
Sexual harassment is deemed to be misconduct and includes such unwelcome sexually determined 
behavior with any employee (male or female) (whether directly or by implication) as: 
 
• Physical contact and advances; or 
• A demand or request for sexual favors; or 
• Sexually colored remarks; or 
• Any unwelcome physical, verbal or non − verbal conduct of sexual nature; or 
• Unwelcome remarks or jokes; or 
• The display of pornographic, racist, or other offensive or derogatory pictures; or 
• Leering or other similar gestures; or 
• Persistent unwelcome social invitations; or 
• Unnecessary or unwelcome physical contact, and; or 
• Physical assault. 
 
Guidelines:- 
 
DAV University does not tolerate or condone sexual harassment or other unlawful behavior in the 
workplace, and or in connection with employment in the Organization whether co mmitted by a 
co−worker, leader , client, contractor (including those working for an agency), supplier, or anyone 
else.

--- PAGE 12 ---
12 | P a g e  
 
 
Actions, behavior, words, jokes or comments that are derogatory and based on any person’s gender, 
race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, ag e, religion, or disability will not be tolerated by DAV University, 
Jalandhar. 
 
Furthermore, the policy establishes that any actions which create  an impression that objections / 
complaints about sexual harassment would result in or create disadvantages in connection with 
employment or work including recruitment or promotion: and or that adverse consequences might 
result if the victim does not consent to the conduct in question and or objects thereto, and or any 
actions which creates a hostile work environme nt would also be viewed as sexual harassment by 
DAV University in respect of which appropriate action will be taken. 
 
In light of the gravity of any allegation of sexual harassment, any empl oyee who deliberately 
provides /  fabricates false information in c onnection with a complaint of sexual harassment or 
investigation in respect thereof will likewise be subject to disciplinary action which could extend up 
to and include termination of employment. 
 
Anonymous complaints will not be entertained. However, the University will ensure that 
confidentiality is maintained in respect of both the complainant and the accused to the maximum 
extent possible. 
 
The Internal Complaint Committee is the inquiry committee formed and deemed to be the Inquiring 
Authority to inquire into all complaints of sexual harassment without fear or threat of reprisals in any 
form or manner. 
 
Committee Members: 
 
The Team shall consist of 7 employees nominated by DAV University: 
 
In case of Any Case Reported 
 
The ICC members shall, after considering the findings and after taking into considerations the gravity 
of the misconduct, previous records (if any) of the employee c oncerned and other extenuating /  
aggravating circumstances that may exist,  shall prepare the Inquiry report of the case. The facts in 
the case will be taken in the form of written statement the Complainant/s. The statement of the 
accused will also be recorded  (i.e. in  written and in the presence of the ICC members) . The 
Committee members shall present / submit the inquiry report  to the Competent Authority and 
necessary action will be taken  thereon within the stipulated  time respect of sexual harassment 
without fear or threat of reprisals in any form or manner. 
 
Employee Initiative 
 
Any employee who feels /  believes that he or she  has been subjected to or witnessed sexual 
harassment in the University, has an obligation and duty to report the same to the  Internal 
Complaint Committee in writing by sending mail to shebox@davuniversity.org  
 
It is important to emphasize that regardless of the avenue used to report complaints, employees will 
not be retaliated against in any way for making a good faith complaint of harassment. However, in 
the event that an employee deliberately makes  or concocts a false complaint /  allegation of sexual 
harassment, such complaint will itself be deemed to be misconduct and will be dealt with seriously. 
 
It is reiterated that confidentiality will be maintained at all times by the Committee and or any other 
person to whom the C omplaints are made. Any Leader /  Officer to whom a complaint of sexual 
harassment is made, is liable to submit the same to the Complaints Committee for necessary action 
respect of sexual harassment without fear or threat of reprisals in any form or manner.

--- PAGE 13 ---
13 | P a g e  
 
Process / Procedure in case of a complaint of Sexual Harassment 
 
An employee who is aggrieved by any conduct / behavior or is witness to or privy to information that 
amounts to sexual harassment is required to submit a written complaint to the complaints 
Committee by sending mail to shebox@davuniversity.org and registrar@davuniversity.org The said 
complaint should contain all available information that the complainant has or is aware of. All 
complaints shall be treated with full confidentiality. Anonymous complaints will not be entertai ned 
by the Company. 
 
In any event, it is advisable that a complaint be made within three days from the cause of the 
complaint. 
 
The Internal Complaints Committee shall investigate the complaints so received, and shall 
thereafter submit the report to Authorities immediately for further course of action. 
 
In the event that complaint is received against a member of the Internal Complaints Committee, the 
said member shall not in any event participate in any proceedings connected to the said complaint. 
 
The Complaints committee could, at its discretion depending on the gravity of the allegations, either 
conduct a detailed inquiry or take other suitable action based on the evidence available. 
 
University is an equal opportunity employer and we would like all of yo u to become aware of what 
constitutes sexual harassment. The University is committed to provide a safe and secure 
environment to all its employees. The University firmly believes that sexual harassment incidents 
destroy human dignity and freedom, and there fore the University would treat complaints regarding 
such incidents seriously and would do its best to deter, prevent and when required, punish 
perpetuators. 
 
All the sexual harassment cases should be promptly reported to the Internal Complaint Committee 
(Sexual Harassment Committee ). The complaints will be immediately addressed as per the UGC 
and University guidelines. 
 
G) UNIVERSITY PROTECTION POLICY (email id: registrar@davuniversity.org) 
 
DAV University requires all employees to observe high standards of b usiness and personal ethics in 
the conduct of their duties and responsibilities. As employees and representatives of the  University, 
we must practice honesty and integrity in fulfilling our responsibilities and comply with all applicable 
laws and regulations. 
 
(i) Reporting Responsibility 
 
It is the responsibility of each employee to comply with the policy and to report violations or 
suspected violations of the policy in accordance with this Policy. 
 
(ii) No Retaliation 
 
The policy is intended to encourage and enable employees to raise serious concerns within the 
University. 
 
• Any employee who, in good faith, reports a violation of the policy is protected from 
harassment, retaliation and adverse employment consequence. 
 
• An employee who retaliates against someone who has reported a violation in good faith is 
subject to disciplinary, financial and legal action upto and including termination of 
employment.

--- PAGE 14 ---
14 | P a g e  
 
Employees are protected from retaliatory actions because they have reported to University 
Authorities: - 
 
i. Any violation of the policy 
ii. Any gross waste of University funds/resources. 
iii. Something that risks a fellow employees’ health or safety 
 
(iii) Reporting Violations 
 
Employees are encouraged to share their questions, concerns, suggestions or complaints with 
someone who can ad dress them properly. In most cases, an employee’s HOD is in the best 
position to address an area of concern.  
 
If you are not comfortable speaking with your HOD or you are not satisfied with your HOD’s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
response, you are encouraged to speak with someone in the Human Resources Department or 
Office of the Registrar . HODs are required to report suspected violations to, who has the 
responsibility to oversee the investigation all reported violations. 
 
(iv) Acting in Good Faith 
 
Anyone filing a complain t of wrongful conduct must act in good faith and have reasonable 
grounds for believing the information disclosed indicates wrongful conduct. Any allegations 
that prove to be unsubstantiated and which prove to have been made maliciously or 
knowingly to be f alse will be viewed as a serious disciplinary offence and necessary 
disciplinary, financial and legal action will be taken against them. 
 
(v) Confidentiality 
 
Reports of wrongful conduct or suspected wrongful conduct will be kept confidential to the 
extent possible, consistent with the need to conduct an adequate investigation. 
 
All reports will be promptly investigated and appropriate corrective action will be taken if 
warranted by the investigation. 
 
 
H) HOLIDAYS 
 
❖ The University observes holidays every year as p er the Academic Session (starting from month of 
July of every year and ending to  the month of June of every year) of the University - The dates for 
these holidays for the academic session will be declared by the beginning of every session.  
 
❖ Above are subject to change as per University policy.

--- PAGE 15 ---
15 | P a g e  
 
I) LEAVE RULES 
 
This policy is drawn to ensure work life balance amongst employee to take care of their personal 
emergencies that may arise in normal course and provide them with an opportunity to rejuvenate by 
way of planned leave. Before proceeding on leave, the leave application is to be sanctioned by the 
immediate superior/ HOD and submitted to HR Department.  Teaching, Admin and Technical staff 
must then properly hand over the work to their colleague. 
 
1. ELIGIBILITY  
 
These leave rules shall be applicable to all employees of the University. 
 
2. TYPES OF LEAVE 
 
 
Types of Leave Entitlement  
(Male) 
Entitlement  
(Female) 
Casual Leave (CL) (For Regular Teaching & Non-Teaching 
employees) 10 days 
20 days (10 in case of 
Contractual Female 
Staff Members) 
Medial Leave (ML) (For Regular Teaching & Non-Teaching 
employees) 05 days 05 days 
Earned Leave (EL) (For Regular Non-Teaching employees) 15 days 15 days 
Vacation (V) (comprises of SV & WV), (For Teaching Staff) As per University Academic Calendar 
Duty Leave (Conferences, Seminars, DCI Inspections, 
University evaluation, Faculty Development Programmes, 
University bodies meetings, Ad-hoc committee meetings) 
** (AL) 
As per University Policy 
Maternity Leave (ML) (Regular Employees) - 90 Days (With Pay) 
 
Leave/s will be subject to prior approval of University Authorities a two days before. 
Contractual employees are not entitled for EL and ML  
 
3. Leave Rules: 
 
i. Leave can not be claimed as a matter of right.  When the exi gencies of the service 
so require, discretion to refuse or revoke leave of any kind is reserved to the 
authority empowered to grant it. 
 
ii. The  nature  of  leave  due  and  applied  for  by any  employee  cannot  be altered 
by the  sanctioning  authority .  So, while  it is open  to the  sanctioning  authority to 
refuse  or  revoke  leave   due  and  applied,  it   is   not  open  to  him  to  alter  the 
nature of such leave. 
 
iii. No employee can leave his head quarter during Sundays or holidays or any ki nd 
of leave without written permission of the sanctioning authority. 
 
iv. Sundays  and other  holidays  may be prefixed  or suffixed  or both to  any kind  of 
leave  subject  to  the  condition  that  the  leave  enjoyed  by  the  employee  does 
not exceed than the leave due. 
 
v. Casual leave cannot be combined with other kinds of leave. 
 
vi. Casual Leave: Ten casual leave per year for employees having service  of less than 
20 years. Employees having 20 years of service are entitled to 15 casual leaves.

--- PAGE 16 ---
16 | P a g e  
 
vii. In  the  month  of  December,  not  more  than  three  days  of  casual  leave  will  
be permissible. 
 
viii. Total  absence  from  the  University  including  holidays  or  Sundays  should  
not exceed 16 days at a stretch. 
 
ix. Earned Leave: All  the  regular  non-teaching  employees  including  those  posted  
in  the Academic Departments  of the  University  shall  be entitled  to  earned  leave  
of  15  days  per annum.  These shall be effective after completion of one year 
regular service from the dat e of probation period, subject to the maximum 
accumulation  of Ninety days Earned Leave in  their entire service  period,  which 
can be encashed at the time of their superannuation / retirement.   This policy / rule 
shall be effective with the start of Academic Session 2017-18. 
 
x. Medical Leave: The teaching and non -teaching staff on regular basis are entitled 
to total 5 days' medical leave per annum. Medical  leave for  more  than  three  days  
cannot  be granted  by the  sanctioning  authority without  m edical  certificate from  
authorized medical practitioner  and the employee will join the duties only after 
producing the fitness certificate.   Medical leave can be accumulated up to 60 days 
for the purpose for which the medical leave is meant. 
 
xi. Vacat ions: The teaching faculty will get vacations as per the University annual 
calendar which ensures minimum of 180 teaching days as envisaged by UGC. 
 
xii. Study Leave: An employee may be allowed three years' study leave   without pay 
after 3 years of regula r service following confirmation.   The leave is extendable by 
two years in special case if the person has an evidence of financial fellowship or aid 
(not personal sources). The total study leave in any case shall not exceed 5 years.  
   
4. Academic/Duty/Special Leaves:  
 
-      Academic Leave may be granted up to a limit of 10 working days in an academic year with the 
prior permission of the Competent Authority. 
 
-       It will be regulated as per the need and exigency. 
 
Academic Leave: Nature and grant thereof; 
 
Academic leave shall be available and considered for the following activities: 
 
1. To participate in Conferences / Seminars / Symposia / Faculty Development 
Programme / Staff training or any other academic activity. 
2. To deliver invitation lectures in the  area of ones specialization in 
academic/research institutions / Universities. 
3. To Chair session in any relevant academic activity like Conference etc. 
4. To participate in delegation or working on a Committee appointed by Central 
/State Government / UGC and any other academic body. 
5. To conduct examination / Viva-Voce on invitation from an academic institution. 
6. To perform duties assigned by UGC/CBSE/NAAC/AICTE /DST /DBT/CSIR/DAE or 
any other Academic/Statutory body. 
 
Further, academic leave shall be regulated as per the conditions below: 
 
i. Academic leave over and above the quota fixed will be treated a s casual leave, as 
due, or would be leave without pay.

--- PAGE 17 ---
17 | P a g e  
 
ii. For those staff members who have the privilege of 20 casual leaves in an academic 
year, academic leave shall b e a part of their quota of CLs. No separate academic 
leave shall be admissible to them. 
iii. Period spent on to and fro journey for attending Conferences / Workshop / 
Symposium place/ city and DAV University shall be counted towards Academic 
leave. 
iv. The days spent on academic leave during non -teaching days shall also be counted 
as a part of the academic leave entitlement. 
v. During vacation, the participation for any academic purpose shall not be treated 
as Academic Leave. 
vi. Academic leave shall be granted up to a max imum of 2 times in one semester, be 
it for a participation in local event, outstation or ex-India. 
 
Duty leave: Nature and grant thereof: 
 
Duty leave, generally, would be for the activity assigned by the University.  All other 
activities / participation shall be counted as academic leave. 
 
1. Duty leave would be over and above the quota of Academic leave as fixed. 
2. Duty leave shall become due only for those activities which are 
undertaken/performed when deputed by the Competent Authority of the 
University/DAVCMC/State or Central Statutory body. 
3. Duty leave shall be granted to c ast vote in election of his/her constituency as 
notified by the State / Central Statutory authorities. However, it shall be admissible 
only for the day of polling. 
  
Special leave: Nature and grant thereof: 
 
1.     For attending Orientation / Refresher programmes as  mandated by UGC over and above the 
leaves of other kind. 
2.   Recognising that UGC, DST, DBT, CSIR, DAE and many other academic/research bodies have 
budgetary provisions to fund extra mural research proposals submitted by the faculty of 
Universities/institutions, this Committee proposes that in case such a funded proposal has 
components of: 
 
- Visits related to data/sample collection 
- Bilateral exchange visits 
 
Then the faculty would be eligible for special leave as under: 
 
-       UGC sanctioned minor projects – one week 
-       UGC sanctioned major projects – Two weeks 
 
Such visits would ordinarily be undertaken during vacation period, unless there are compelling reasons 
for visits during  non-vacation period.  Visits beyond this period would be regulated out of the other 
admissible leaves, such as academic leave, leave without pay, etc. 
 
Reports of such visits shall have to submitted to the Competent Authority. 
 
New Joinees:  All ne w teaching / non -teaching staff joining during the y ear will be entitled for 
CL/ML/EL on pro-rata basis. EL & ML can be availed only by Regular / on-Probation employees after 
completion of one year of service. 
 
Existing employees: Apart from the previous l eave balance, current year leave will be calculated on 
pro-rata basis and will be added to the existing leave balance.

--- PAGE 18 ---
18 | P a g e  
 
5. GENERAL RULES REGARDING LEAVES 
 
❖ Prior Sanction:  The employees should get a prior sanction of leave from their immediate 
supervisor to e nsure smooth functioning in their abse nce in any communication medium. The 
leave format is available on the University DAVIS Portal 
 
❖ Power to grant/ reject:  It is to be noted that the sanctioning authority / University Authorities 
reserves the right to gra nt/reject a leave request, depending upon the operating conditions/ 
departmental functionality. Hence any unapproved leave will be considered as Leave without 
Pay (LWP). 
 
❖ Unplanned leave : In the event of any unforeseen circumstances where the prior sanctio n of 
leave is not possible, the same should be communicated to the immediate Head and inform HR 
by any possible mode of communication (sms/phone/email etc). The employee should submit a 
formal leave application / intimation immediately after resuming the duty. 
 
❖ Other: DAV University , being a professional education centre focuses on providing quality 
education together with a disciplined way of life; proceeding on unplanned leave is consciously 
discouraged as it severely affects the curriculum delivery patte rn and normal functioning of the 
University.  Frequent unplanned absence will therefore, have its reflections on the ACR of the 
individual. 
 
❖ New joinees: CL (ML, EL in case of Regular employees)  shall be calculated on pro -rata basis for 
employee joining in between of the academic session where as EL shall be calculated on pro-rata 
basis but the entitlement will be applicable only after confirmation. 
 
6. PROCEDURE FOR APPLYING FOR LEAVE 
 
Below is the procedure for leave application process which needs to be followed for all cases. No 
leave will be considered sanctioned outside this process: - 
 
• Written application: Application to be made in hard copy (as per format  available on 
DAVIS Portal) and given to immediate superior/ reporting Head/HOD. 
• HOD’s recommendatio n: HOD t o recommend the leave application with reasons and 
send to approval of Registrar / Concerned Dean. 
• Approval: On receipt of leave application, Registrar / Concerned Dean will approve/ 
reject the leave and share a copy of the same with HR department for their records. 
• Exception: Medical leave, if in an emergency, can be taken with information but needs 
to be backed by a medical certificate  if the employee avails three or more than three 
ML’s. 
 
7. AUTHORITY, EMPOWERED TO GRANT LEAVE 
 
o For all employees: The power to grant leave to all employees except that of Registrar / 
Concerned Dean shall vest in the Registrar / Concerned Dean  or any Higher Authority of the 
University who has been delegated such power. All applications for leave should be routed 
through Head of the Department and addressed to authority empowered to grant leave. 
 
o Registrar / Deans: In case of Registrar / Deans, the power to grant leave shall with the Vice 
Chancellor of the University. 
 
 
8. POWER TO REFUSE / REVOKE/RECALL LEAVE 
 
 It is emphasiz ed that leave cannot be availed as a matter of right. Hence, before 
proceeding on any planned leave, the leave application is to be sanctioned by the

--- PAGE 19 ---
19 | P a g e  
 
concerned authority and it must be ensured that any important pending 
work/assignment is shared with their colleague/Reporting Head in advance. 
 
 In case of any work exigencies, if required, the leave can be refused, revoked or recalled 
(even after the approval) at the discretion of the Approving Authority. 
 
9. COMMENCEMENT & TERMINATION OF LEAVE 
 
➢ Eligibility: The first day of an employee’s leave is the working day succeeding that upon 
which they make over charge or is last on duty; and the last day of an employee’s leave 
is the working day preceding that on, which they have to report on duty. 
 
➢ Reporting to duty: On the expiry of their leave, an employee shall report to their return 
to duty at the start of the working day successfully the day on which their leave expires. 
 
➢ Prefix/ Suffix: Except CL, for all other kinds of leave, holidays but for prefix or suffix wil l 
be counted as leave.  
 
10. LEAVE WITHOUT PAY (LWP) 
 
❖ Leave beyond entitlement: In case staff members whose CL/M L/EL has been exhausted 
or taken in excess of the entitlement or whose has extended leave without informing or 
sanction from the authorities of the University, those excess leave taken will be treated 
as LEAVE WITHOUT PAY (LWP). 
 
❖ Violation: If the leave is not so authorized, it will be considered as violation of conduct 
rules and dealt accordingly. 
 
11. COMBINATION OF LEAVE 
 
o CL cannot be combined with or taken in continuation of EL and ML (Except LWP) 
 
o All other leaves can be combined subject to prior approval from granting authority. The 
granting authority will ensure that the smooth functioning of their department/office is 
not affected during the long leave of the employee. 
 
12. ABSENT WITHOUT LEAVE (A) – WITHOUT SANCTION OR AFTER EXPIRY OF LEAVE 
 
▪ Sanction: An employee who applies for leave must ensure that the leave applied is 
sanctioned before proceeding on leave, failing which the period of absence will b e 
treated as “Absent without Leave” and salary will be deducted for this duration. 
 
▪ Expiry of leave: Similarly, an employee who remains absent after the expiry of their 
leave will be treated as “ Absent without Leave ".  Such kind of absence shall involve 
disciplinary action as deemed fit and/or salary will be deducted for this duration. 
 
13. EARLY RETURN FROM LEAVE 
 
• An employee on leave can return to duty before the expiry of the period of leave 
granted to them subject to submission of request application in wri ting duly sanctioned 
by the authority, which granted them leave.

--- PAGE 20 ---
20 | P a g e  
 
 
14. OBLIGATION TO FURNISH UPDATED ADDRESS/ CONTACT DETAILS WHILE APPLYING/ 
PROCEEDING ON LEAVE 
 
While applying and before proceeding on any leave, employee must furnish the updated 
address/contact details in the leave application form and shall keep the said authority informed 
of any change in the address previously furnished. 
 
Note: While on leave, employee shall not take up any service or accept any other employment  
including the setting up of a private professional practice as consultant or as an expert without 
obtaining the sanction approval, in writing, from the University Authorities. 
 
15. LEAVE ENTITLEMENT ON EMPLOYEE SUSPENSION 
 
Leave will not be granted to an employee when they are under susp ension and against whom 
enquiry/proceedings are pending. 
 
16. MAINTENANCE OF LEAVE RECORDS 
 
All leave details of an employee shall be updated and maintained by HR/Admin Department on 
regular basis. The Leave details consist of various kinds of leave granted an d av ailed of by an 
employee service. 
 
17. PAY DURING LEAVE 
 
• All leaves: Employee who is  only on approved leave (CL/EL/ML ) is eligible for full pay 
during their leave period (if the balance leaves are available).   
 
 
• Medical Leave: In case 3 or more M L’s are ava iled continuously, a proper medical 
certificate by certified medical practitioner (MBBS Doctor) should be furnished. 
 
 
J. BUSINESS CARDS 
 
Business cards may be provided to an employee (Department Such as Marketing, Purchase, Finance 
HR, Admin) whose job requi res regular interaction with representatives of external agencies, 
contractors/vendors, state, local, or central governments agencies, private industry etc. 
 
The HoD determine which employees require business cards for their official duties. On receiving the 
required approval of Competent Authority  the following guidelines must be followed by Admin 
Department while printing the stationery: - 
 
• The individual’s name and University’s address must be included on the business card; title, 
department, land line t elephone with extension, mobile no., email id, University’s web address 
etc.

--- PAGE 21 ---
21 | P a g e  
 
K. Travel (TA/DA) POLICY 
 
 
Purpose: To provide reimbursement for the travel and other expenses to the employees for the 
reasonable and necessary exp enses incurred in connecti on with approved travel on behalf of the 
University. 
 
(1) Categorization of Employees: For the purpose of grant of Travelling Allowance (TA)/Dearness 
Allowance (DA) categorization of Employees on the basis of Designation & or Grade Pay shall be as 
follows:- 
Category Grade Pay ( if applicable) Designation (To be considered for Consolidated Salary/ 
contractual employees cases only) 
I Rs. 10,000/- and above Vice- Chancellor, Executive Director, Registrar, Deans, & 
Professors. 
II Rs. 7,600/- to  Rs. 9,999/- Associate Professors, Directors, Librarian, OSD, FO, DFO, Estate 
Officer, DY. Directors, DY. Registrar. 
III Rs. 5,000/- to  Rs. 7,599/- Asst. Professors, Asst. Librarian, Asst. Registrar, Accounts Officer, 
TPO, Superintendent, Warden, Manager UMS 
IV Rs. 3,200/- to  Rs. 4,999/- Workshop Instructor, Lab. Technician, JE, Network Administrator, 
Asst. Programme Developer, Staff Nurse, Data Entry Operator, 
Clark, Steno, Hostel Manager, Asst. Warden, Store In charge, 
Assistant.  
V Below Rs. 3,200/-  Electrician, Plumber, Helper, Attendant, Meson, Mali, Driver, 
Operator , Care Taker, Carpenter, Peon etc. 
 
(2) Classification of Cities: The Classification of Cities within or outside of state for grant of TA/DA shall 
be as under: 
 
(a) Cities with population of 50 Lakhs and 
above 
A 1 
 
 
Metro Cities ( Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai & 
Kolkata) 
(b) Cities with population of 20 lakhs but 
less than 50 Lakhs 
A 2 All state capitals & Ahmedabad, Pune, 
Kanpur. 
(c ) Cities with population of 10 lakh but less 
than 20 Lakhs 
B 1  
( d) Cities with population of 5 lakhs but less 
than 10 Lakhs 
B 2

--- PAGE 22 ---
22 | P a g e  
 
(3) Daily Allowance ( DA)/ Hotel Rates ( Hotel rates for Punjab only):The rates of daily allowance 
applicable to all categories ( with in India ) and Hotel  accommodation rates are applicable with in 
Punjab, Accommodation/ Hotel Rates Out Side Punjab are annexed at Serial no 6 on page no 3 
   
 Calcification of 
City                                                                                                 
 
A 1 
 
A 2 
 
B 1 
 
B 2 & Other Places 
Category >> Hotel 
Rate 
DA (Rs.) Hotel 
Rate 
DA 
(Rs.) 
Hotel 
Rate 
DA (Rs.) Hotel Rate DA (Rs.) 
I 1000 700 900 600 800 500 700 450 
II 800 600 700 450 650 400 550 350 
III 650 400 550 350 500 325 400 300 
IV 500 350 400 300 350 275 300 250 
V 400 300 350 250 300 225 250 200 
 
(4) Travel Entitlement by Rail/Air: The Entitlement to travel by Rail/Air ( with in India) shall be as 
under:-  
Category Entitlement by Rail Entitlement by Air 
I 1st class AC/ Executive Class Economy Class 
II AC Chair Car/ AC Two Tire Sleeper Class Not Applicable 
III AC Chair Car/ AC Three Tire Sleeper Class Not Applicable 
IV & V Second Class Sleeper Not Applicable 
 
(5) Journey by Road: The category range for travel by road through Public bus/Auto/Two wheeler/AC 
Taxi/Taxi/Own Car is indicated as below: 
Category Entitlement ( for use of Public 
Transport/ Hired Transport) 
Entitlement of Mileage Allowance ( for use of 
own Vehicle i.e Four/Two wheeler) 
I Actual fair by any type of public bus 
including Air-Conditioned bus     OR  
 
At rates prescribed by Transport 
department for A.C Taxi               OR 
 
 
Own Car @ Rs. 8 per/km 
 
Own Scooter/Motor Cycle @ Rs 3.50 per/km

--- PAGE 23 ---
23 | P a g e  
 
Actual fair for journey by Auto Rickshaw. 
II Actual fair by any type of public bus 
including Air-Conditioned bus     OR  
 
At rates prescribed by Transport 
department for Non A.C Taxi /A.C Taxi 
(with prior permission)               OR 
 
Actual fair for journey by Auto Rickshaw. 
Own Car @ Rs. 8 per/km ( With prior/post 
approval) 
 
Own Scooter/Motor Cycle @ Rs 3.50 per/km   
III Actual fair by any type of public bus/ Air-
Conditioned bus ( if one side distance is 
more than 200 km      OR  
 
At rates prescribed by Transport 
department for Non A.C Taxi (with prior 
permission & one side distance is more 
than 200 km)               OR 
 
Actual fair for journey by Auto Rickshaw. 
Own Car @ Rs. 8 per/km (With prior approval as a 
special case if One side distance is more than 200 
Km) OR Shared by two or more employees of any 
category with post facto approval. 
 
Own Scooter/Motor Cycle @ Rs 3.50 per/km 
IV & V Actual fair by ordinary public bus.   OR  
 
At rates prescribed by Transport 
department for journey by Auto 
Rickshaw. 
Own Car Not Allowed 
 
Own Scooter/Motor Cycle @ Rs 3.50  per/km 
 
Own Bicycle @ Rs 2.0 p per/km

--- PAGE 24 ---
24 | P a g e  
 
(6) Accommodation/ Hotel Rates ( Out Side Punjab): The maximum rates for Hotel Accommodation for  
Tour outside Punjab (with in India) on the production of bill/ receipt shall be as under: 
Category Accommodation * 
I Reimbursement of actual expenditure incurred towards normal single room rent in a Hotel 
category not above 5 Star. 
 Classification of Cities ( Any Hotel room up to Rupees per day) 
 A 1 A 2 B 1 B 2 & Other Places 
II 1500 1200 1000 800 
III 1000 800 700 600 
IV 800 600 500 400 
V 600 400 400 300 
  
* Half rates applicable for non-production of valid bill/Receipt or making own arrangements/ Visiting home 
town. 
Guidelines / General Conditions: 
1. TA/DA bill shall be submitted within 15 days from the end of tour/visit date along with original bill 
/Receipts/tickets & required supporting documents/report ( if applicable) , on TA/DA form of DAV 
University, Jalandhar only. 
2. Photo copy of Toll Tax receipts (if travelled by Taxi/own car) along with copy of pre/post facto 
approval (as applicable) and copy of duty leave must be attached with claim form. 
3. No hotel accommodation claim/ re imbursement will be provided in case of Academic Leave. 
4. Employee is required to travel and or avail Hotel accommodation as per entitlement, In case travel in 
lower class and or avail Hotel accommodation below entitlement than actual will be reimburse. 
5. In case travel and or avail Hotel accommodation above entitlement, only entitled amount shall be 
reimbursed.  
6. No Commission/ Brokerage and / or miscellaneous expenditure occurred on booking of tickets & or 
Hotels shall be reimbursed. 
7. No allowance should be permissible with in the radius of 10 km from the place of duty, only mileage 
at fixed rates to be paid except to employees who are in receipt of travelling and or Convenience 
Allowance. 
8. Journey beyond 10 km and within 30 km from place of duty should be treated as local journey, DA 
should be admissible for a calendar day at half the normal rate if the period of absent is more than 4 
hrs but less than 6 hrs, and the employee return to headquarter on the same day.  
9. A full DA should be admissible for journey beyond 30 km from headquarters and or place of posting 
if the period of absent is 6 hrs or more. 
10.   The above rules and TA/DA should not be considered for any International travel and or for Ex India 
leave etc. 
11. DA is for one calendar day i.e 24 hrs, at least 4 hour duty is required to be completed for eligibility of 
next half day DA.  
12. All rights reserved by DAV University, Jalandhar.

--- PAGE 25 ---
25 | P a g e  
 
L.  IT AND SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY 
 
Social Media Policy 
 
The Social Media policy applies to all kinds of electronic communications, including but is not limited 
to multi-media, social networking websites, blogs and wikis for both professional and personal use. 
Consistent with other University policies, internet postings ma y not disclose any informa tion that is 
confidential or proprietary to DAV University or to any third party that has disclosed information to 
the University. Internet postings must respect copyright, privacy, fair use, financial disclosure and 
other applicable laws.    
 
Employees may not claim nor imply that they are speaking on behalf of the University on personal 
social media accounts. Social media accounts on behalf of the University require approval of the 
University Authorities prior to initiation. DAV University, Jalandhar  reserves the right to request 
certain subjects to be avoided, certain posts to be withdrawn and inappropriate comments to be 
removed on DAV University, Jalandhar social media accounts. 
Examples of prohibited activity include, but are not limited to:  
 
❖ Inappropriate posts that may include discriminatory remarks, harassment, or threats of 
violence 
 
❖ Posts that could contribute to a hostile work environment on the basis of race, sex, national 
origin, religion, sexual preference, gender identity or any other status protected by law or by 
DAV University, Jalandhar. 
 
❖ Posts that could be viewed as malicious, obscene, threatening, or intimidating. 
 
❖ Offensive posts meant to intentionally harm someone’s reputation.   
 
 
 IT Policy 
 
The University expects its employees to us e University equipments and resources with utmost care 
and responsibility without compromising on productivity. All employees are expected to use their 
rationality to ensure that the University equipment and resources are being ut ilized judiciously. 
Employees are responsible to ensure that University facilities such as telephone, fax, internet, mail, 
laptops, data card etc., are not used for personal purposes. This Policy is to ensure that due care is 
exercised in protecting comput ing systems and related po licy. This policy also governs the use of 
University information and information systems and seeks to achieve an appropriate balance 
between information sharing and information protection. 
 
1. DETAILED GUIDELINES FOR COMPUTER, INTERNET/INTRANET BROWSER(S) USAGE 
 
❖ The system/internet/intranet are University resources and given to employees as business tools 
to use them for research, professional development and work-related communications. 
❖ Supervisors/Reporting Heads should work with employees to determine the a ppropriateness of 
using the system/internet/intranet for professional work.  
✓ Employees are individually liable for any and all damages incurred as a result of violating 
University’s security policy, copyright, and licensing agreements 
✓ Violation of these po licies and/or state and federal laws can lead to disciplinary action, 
up to and including dismissal and possible criminal prosecution. 
❖ Use of University computers, networks, and internet access is a privilege granted by University 
Authorities and may be revoked at any time for inappropriate conduct including, but not limited 
to:

--- PAGE 26 ---
26 | P a g e  
 
✓ Sending chain letters;  
✓ Engaging in private or personal business activities;  
✓ Misrepresenting oneself or the University;  
✓ Engaging in unlawful or malicious activities;  
✓ Using abusive, threatening, racist, sexist, or otherwise objectionable language in either 
public or private messages;  
✓ Sending, receiving, or accessing pornographic materials;  
✓ Becoming involved in partisan politics;  
✓ Causing congestion, dis ruption, disablement, alte ration or impairment of University 
networks or systems;  
✓ Infringing in any way on the copyrights or trademark rights of others;  
✓ Using recreational games;  
✓ Defeating or attempting to defeat security restrictions on University systems and 
applications; and/or 
✓ Downloading of movies, songs and other media for personal purposes. 
❖ Using University automation systems to create, view, transmit, or receive racist, sexist, 
threatening, or otherwise objectionable or illegal material is strictly prohibited. 
❖ No employee may use the University’s Internet/Intranet facilities to deliberately propagate any 
virus, trojan horse, trap -door program code, or other code or file designed to disrupt, disable, 
impair, or otherwise harm either the University’s networks or systems or t hose of any other 
individual or entity. 
 
2. CREATION OF OFFICIAL EMAIL ID 
 
The Teaching, Admin and Technical staff’s email creation process begins when new hires are joined 
into DAV University, Jalandhar. 
 
Request: On the first day, after completion of new hi re joining process, an email will be sent to the 
DAVIS Departmental for creating an email id for new hire. 
 
Creation of ID : On receiving the request, the email account is created and an automated email is 
sent to the new appointee  containing his new  email address, password scheme and any other 
pertinent information. The email id created will be name and Emp ID wise of the employee.  
 
3. OWNERSHIP AND ACCESS OF ELECTRONIC MAIL & DOCUMENTS 
 
• The University owns the rights to all data and  files in any computer, ne twork, or other 
information system used in the University. This includes the right to monitor and right to 
inspect all computer and e-mail usage. 
• Employees must be aware that the electronic mail messages sent and received using 
University equipment are not  private and are subject to viewing, downloading, inspection, 
release, and archiving by University officials at all times. 
• No employee may access another employee's computer, computer files, or electronic mail 
messages without prior authorization from either the Employee or an appropriate University 
official. 
 
4. ELECTRONIC MAIL/SIGNATURE TAMPERING 
 
❖ Electronic mail messages received should not be altered without the sender's permission; 
nor should electronic mail be altered and forwar ded to another user and/or  unauthorized 
attachments be placed on other's electronic mail message. 
 
❖ Email Signature and color format shouldn’t be change listed standard format

--- PAGE 27 ---
27 | P a g e  
 
Thanks & Regards 
Employee Name: 
Designation: 
Mob. No./s 
Email ID:  
Address of the University: 
 
5. RULES FOR ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS 
 
 Responsibility: Each Employee is responsible for the content of all text, audio or images that 
they place on or send over the University’s e-mail, Intranet or Internet systems.  
 
 Professionalism: Employees must ensure that their messages are courteous and professional 
and that the tone and words they use would not cause embarrassment to themselves or the 
University if the message were made public. 
 
6. DATA/EMAIL HANDLING 
 
Although the University may provide employee with computer, ne twork and phone access, all data 
stored is, and remains, the property of the  University. This includes, but is not limited to, electronic 
devices, electronic mail, voicemail, instant messages and all files and documents composed, sent, 
received are remain University property.  Hence, all messages/documents need to be required for 
future reference and needs to be stored properly.  
 
7. DOWNLOADING SOFTWARE 
 
As a policy, employee should never download/transmit any software/ applications w hich could 
involve Univers ity into legal  complications.  In case if any employee needs new 
software/applications, a request duly approved by HOD, needs to be sent to the IT Department for 
support. IT department will evaluate the request and take necessary steps accordingly. 
 
8. NEW SOFTWARE PURCHASE 
 
❖ Any new software request will come from user/department (with approval of Departmental 
Head) to IT with specification (need etc.). 
❖ On receiving the duly approved request, IT will analyse requirement (urgency & cos t) and 
will find the best suitable solution after getting the approval of University Authorities. 
❖ After approval from University Authorities, raise the Purchase Order to Vendor, delivery of 
Purchase Order and receiving with Material Receiving Note (MRN) Document. 
❖ Installation & training on the software will be given to end user. 
 
9. LOSS / DAMAGE OF UNIVERSITY ASSET 
 
In the event of a loss / damage of a University Asset, the user, possessing the asset must report the 
incident to University IT team (along with their Reporting Head) with in 24 hours. The concerned 
departments, after considering the facts of the matter in question, will assess as to whether the loss 
/ damage is attributed to the negligence / carelessness of the user in question. The principle of 
natural justice shall be applied and an equal opportunity of being heard shall be given to the user. If 
the user is found to be guilty of negligence / carelessness, resulting in the loss / damage of the 
University assets, suitable disciplinary and financial action will be initiated against them. 
 
It is the responsibility of the user to get the documentation done as may be required to file the 
insurance claim in respect of the lost / damaged University asset (like the Copy of FIR) within the 
stipulated time limit i.e. 48 hours.

--- PAGE 28 ---
28 | P a g e  
 
10. IT RELATED PURCHASE POLICY 
 
The aim of this document is to outline the policy and procedures related to the procurement of IT 
related material, at University. 
 
  Purchase Process 
 
❖ Departmental Heads will put a request to IT Departmen t after taking the approva l from 
University Authorities for purchase of IT equipment and software and it shall be initiated as per 
purchase process policy available with IT.  
 
11. DATA SECURITY 
 
❖ Employees are supposed to take approval for all connections to th e internet or other private 
network from IT Department. All computers used in the premises are tracked by IT 
department.  
❖ Any electronic equipment must be disposed only after ensuring that it may not be accessible 
by third party. 
❖ Systems must be made avail able for security update s o that latest applications are being 
updated time to time.  
 
12. DATABASE BACKUP 
 
We expect all employees in DAV University, Jalandhar to create & maintain appropriate backup 
of their respective systems. 
 
❖ Backup- The saving of files o nto External mass storage media for the purpose of preventing 
loss of data in the event of equipment failure or destruction. 
❖ IT Department will ensure timely backup of the server such as daily, weekly at respective 
locations. 
❖ Archive- The saving of old or unused files onto External mass storage media for the purpose 
of releasing on-line storage room 
❖ Restore - The process of bringing stored data back from the external media and putting it on 
an online storage system. 
 
 
13. SECURITY GUIDELINES 
 
a. Internet Connection Usage: -  
 
❖ This specifies how users are allowed to connect to the approved Network and get IT 
department’s approval on all connections to the internet or other private network.  
❖ Requires all connections such as connections by modems or wireless media to a 
private network or the i nternet to be approved by the IT department and what is 
typically required for approval such as the operation of a firewall to protect the 
connection.  
❖ Also defines how the network will be protected to prevent users from going to 
malicious web sites. 
 
b. Asset Control: - 
 
❖ This process is meant for the tracking of asset movement from one location to another 
location. It will define who signs off on the movement of the property.  
❖ In case the system is moved from one location to other, database needs to be updated 
immediately so that location of all equipments is known. This will help network 
administrators to protect the network since they will know which user and computer is 
at what station in the case of a virus infecting the network.  
❖ This also ensures that the data on the computer being moved between secure facilities 
may be sensitive and must be encrypted during the move.

--- PAGE 29 ---
29 | P a g e  
 
c. Access Rights & Firewall: - 
 
• Access rights  to the organizational network cannot be transferred to another person  
even if that person is us ing an allowed computing device, unless it is approved by the 
concerned authority. 
• Firewall: Ensure authorized Antivirus/Firewall program with the latest possible updates 
from time to time. The program shall be configured for real  time protection, to retri eve 
updates daily, and to perform an anti-virus or malware scan at least once per week.  
• Additional malware protection software shall be active on the computer in accordance 
with the anti-virus and malware policy. 
 
 
d. System Update: - 
 
The systems and applic ations are checked for security updates by IT department at 
respective locations and it is the responsibility of IT team to regularly update each system in 
their respective location. All employees must co -operate/coordinate with I T Team for 
ensuring timely update of their system. 
 
e. User Rights: - 
 
Some of the employees based on the job requirements subject to approval from concerned 
authority are allowed accessing and controlling of sensitive and internet access to specific 
sites/programs.  
 
f. Application Installation/Implementation: - 
 
IT Department is responsible for installation/implementation of any computer licensed 
applications on the network to protect both the data used in the application and the rest of 
the computer network.  
 
g. Guidelines for the Usage of Mobile Connection/ Landline: - 
 
❖ Eligibility for Mobile Connection: The University, under its corporate connection 
arrangement, provides Sim card to employees depending upon the role and 
responsibilities of the employee . Vice Ch ancellor / Registrar  shall be entitled to 
nominate the employees who shall be provided with the corporate connection. 
Teaching, Admin and Technical staff members requiring frequent communication will be 
provided IP Connection /  Number. 
❖ Eligibility for Landline: Landline connection will be issued to concerned employee only if 
required depending upon the role and responsibilities of the employee. 
❖ Usage: As per the approval given to an employee for the usage of mobile/landline,  it is 
vital that the mobile con nection/ land lines are us ed as much as possible for all official 
calls when people are in University.  
❖ Issuance of SIM: Admin Department will issue the sim card to employee based on the 
duly filled & approved request in the prescribed format available wit h HR and Admin 
department. 
❖ Plan type: Mobile phone connection plan is given, accessing the type job responsibilities 
/ work of the employee.  
❖ Unofficial calls: In case of any personal calls, the concerned employee should mark all 
their personal calls details and accordingly the deduction will be done towards personal 
calls in the next month salary 
❖ Decorum to be maintained:  The uses of non -essential features such as caller tunes etc. 
are not permitted especially to maintain the professional decorum of the University. 
❖ All employees ne ed to keep in mind the professional decorum of the University while 
choosing the mobile ring tone & keeping its volume to normal level. 
❖ Sending of vulgar, malicious and or threatening calls, messages from the phone is strictly 
forbidden and can result in strict disciplinary action.

--- PAGE 30 ---
30 | P a g e  
 
SECTION – 3 
A.  EMPLOYEE SERVICE AND CONDUCT RULES 
 
 
(As per clause 5 (iv and xv) of the Act of DAV University, Jalandhar) 
1. Short Title & Commencement 
 
a. These rules may be called the DAV University Employees  (Terms and  
Conditions of Service) Rules, 2013. 
 
b. These rules shall come into force with immediate effect. 
2. Definitions & Interpretations  
In these rules, the following terms and expressions shall have the meaning hereby  
assigned to them:  
 
a. "Service" means the time spent: 
i. On duty;  
ii. On Sanctioned leave;  
iii. On recognized vacation. 
b. "Appointing Authority" means the authority to make appointments to a post  
which an employee for the time being is holding.  
c. "Average monthly salary" means the salary which an employe e has earned  
during so much of his active service as is within one year preceding the day on which he 
proceeds on leave, divided by the number of months on which the calculation is made.  
d. "Cadre" means the strength of a service or part of a service sancti oned as a  
 separate unit.  
e. "Compensatory allowance" means an allowance granted to meet personal  
expenditure necessitated by the special circumstances in which duty is  
performed. It includes Travelling Allowance, Dearness Allowance but does not include a  
sumptuary allowance nor a grant of free passage.  
f. "Day" means a calendar, beginning and ending at midnight. (Note: Absence from 
headquarters which does not exceed twenty-four hours, shall be reckoned for all purposes 
as one day, at whatever hours the absence begins or ends.)  
g. "Employee" means –  
i. any person in the service of the University and includes any such  
person whose services are temporarily placed by the University at the  
disposal of another University, College or any other authority; and  
ii. also any person in the servi ce of a local or other authority, or any other autonomous 
body whose services are temporarily placed at the disposal of the University.  
iii. any person serving in any other DAV institution whose services are  
placed on deputation at the disposal of University.  
h. "Family" means a wife or husband, as the case may be, of the employee of the university 
residing with and dependent upon the employee and legitimate  
children and step children, dependent parents, widowed sister residing with and who lly 
dependent upon the employee.  
i. "Honorarium" means recurring or non -recurring payment granted to an employee from the 
funds of the University as remuneration for special work of an occasional or intermittent 
nature.  
j. "Joining Time" means the time allowed  to join a new post o r travel to or from a station to 
another to join a post.  
k. "Leave Salary" means the monthly amount paid by the University to an  
employee who is on duly sanctioned leave with pay.

--- PAGE 31 ---
31 | P a g e  
 
l. "Month" means a calendar month. In calculation, a perio d expressed in 'terms  of months 
and days, complete calendar month irrespective of the number of days on each, should first 
be calculated and the odd number of days calculated  
subsequently.  
m. "Permanent employee" means a person confirmed in permanent post.  
n. "Prescribed Authorit y": Prescribed Authority means the Chancellor, the Vice -  
Chancellor or the Registrar, as the case may be, or the authority prescribed by the Board of 
Management/Governing Body, for the purpose of these rules as whole, or for any individual 
rule.  
o. "Probation": A person on probation on a post is one who is appointed through  
direct selection to a post for determining his fitness for eventual substantive  
appointment to the post.  
p. "Salary" means the amount of the monthly pay and allowance s granted by the  
University to an employee.  
q. "Service" means the whole period of continuous service, including periods spent on 
legitimate leave.  
r. "Society" means the Dayanand Anglo Vedic College Trust & Management  
Society, New Delhi. 
s. "Temporary post" means a post carrying a definite rate of pay sanctioned for a limited time.  
t. "Travelling Allowance" means an entitled allowance granted to an employee to cover the 
expenses which he incurs for travelling in the interest of the University.  
u. "University" means the DAV University, Jalandhar.  
 
3. Age Limit for Appointment to the Posts 
 
Subject to amendment(s) made by the Governing Body from time to time, the age,  
educational qualifications and other qualification/experience for appointment and  
methods of recruitment shall be as presc ribed by the Statutes/Rules, provided that no one shall 
be appointed to any post unless he attained the age of 18 years.    
4. Methods & Procedure of Recruitment 
a. The recruitment to the posts may be made –  
 
i. by direct recruitment;  
ii. by borrowing services of employees from other institutions on deputation.  
 
 
b. Direct appointment will be made, after public advertisement, on the  
recommendations of the Selection Committee to be constituted by the  
Chancellor/Board of Management/Vice-Chancellor, as the case may be.  
5. Procedure of appointment of Teaching Staff  
a. Subject to approval by the Governing Body, all appointments to Teaching Posts, in the case 
of direct recruitment, shall be made after advertisement by the University on the 
recommendations of the Selection Committee. 
b.  
i. The Chancellor, or in his absence, the Vice -Chancellor shall be the  
Chairman of the Selection Committee. The quorum shall be four out of which at 
least one outside subject expert must be present. 
ii. The Selection Committee shall co nsider and submit to the Board of  
Management recommendations as to the appointment referred to it. If the Board of 
Management is unable to accept the recommendations of the Selection Committee, 
it shall record its reasons and submit the case to the Chancellor for final orders.

--- PAGE 32 ---
32 | P a g e  
 
6. Special Mode of Appointment 
 
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Statutes, the Board of Management, may invite a 
person of high academic distinction and professional attainments to accept a post of Professor / 
Associate Profe ssor in the Universit y, on such terms and conditions as it deems fit and on the 
person agreeing to do so, appoint him to the post. The decision taken by the Board of 
Management shall be reported to the Governing Body at its next meeting. 
a. A Selection Commit tee while recommendin g a candidate for appointment to a  
post in the University, may also prepare a waiting list or panel, in order of merit,  
so that if the person appointed does not join, the person next on the waiting list  
may be offered the post. The waiting list, shall, however, be operative for a  
period of one session from the date of meeting of the Board of Management in  
which it is approved.  
 
Note: Notwithstanding anything contained in the above Statutes, the Chancellor or the Vice -
Chancellor, as the case may be, may make a temporary appointment on a specific contract, 
wherever considered necessary. In a case where the appointing authority is the Board of 
Management/Governing Body, the decision shall be reported to the authority concerned 
at its next meeting.  
7. Communication of sanctions 
When the prescribed authority has approved the appointment, necessary orders  
incorporating terms and conditions of the appointment, shall be issued by the  
appropriate authority to the person concerned.  
 
The appo intment shall take ef fect from the date the incumbent actually joins after issue of 
appointment letter, provided that the seniority of persons placed in order of merit by the 
Selection Committee, shall not be affected irrespective of date of joining, unles s otherwise 
specifically decided.  
8. Fitness 
Appointment of a person on a substantive post, shall be subject to his being medically fit by the 
Chief Medical Officer of the University or any other medical officer authorized by the V ice-
Chancellor for the purpose. 
9. Probation 
i. All appointments, shall, be on probation for a period of two years.  
ii. The UGC norms regarding eligibility and qualification shall be followed for selection and 
appointment of a regular teacher. 
iii. The University may appoint any eminent scholar. 
iv. All appointments agai nst substantive posts shall be initially on probation which shall be for 
the period of 2 years.  The Competent Authority may extend the probation period by 
another year after the completion of 2 years of probation. 
a.  Confirm the employee in service from due date;  
OR 
b. dispense with his service as per UGC/State Govt. rules/regulations.

--- PAGE 33 ---
33 | P a g e  
 
 
10. Date of reckoning pay and allowances 
An employee shall commence to draw the pay and allowances of the post from the date he 
assumes the duties of the post,  if the charge is ass umed in the fore -noon, otherwise from the 
following date and shall cease to draw the same when he ceases to discharge or is relieved from 
those duties.  
The salaries and grades of Professors, Associate Professors, Assistant Professors and persons 
holding non-teaching posts in the DAV University shall be fixed by the Board of Management. 
11. Retirement  
 
Employees of the University shall retire on attaining the age of 60 years. 
 
12. Discontinuation, termination and resignation from service 
A permanent employee shall not leave or discontinue his service in the University without first 
giving a prior notice to the Registrar/Vice -Chancellor, as the case may be, of his intention to 
leave or discontinue service. The period of notice shall be as under: 
a. Three calendar months in case of permanent employees.  
b. One calendar month in case of employees on probation.  
 
Provided further that in case of breach of above provision, an employee shall be liable to pay to 
the University, in lieu of notice, a sum equal  to his pay and allow ances for the period falling 
short of notice required to be given by him. 
13. Service Book 
i. A record of service in respect of every University employee (except those who are appointed 
on temporary basis) shall be maintained in his service-book.  
 
ii. Every step in the official life of an employee, including promotions of all kinds, increments, 
leave etc., shall be recorded in his Service-book. Each entry shall be attested with date by the 
Head of the Branch or Registrar for administrative office s and the Dean of Uni versity 
instruction / Dean Academics for Teaching Departments. 
iii.  
a. Special precaution should be taken at the time of filling up page -1 of the service -book, 
more specially in respect of date of birth, as it is to determine the final date o f retirement 
of an em ployee. The officer authorized to maintain service -books shall himself perform 
this important function personally and attest the date of birth entry in token of his having 
verified it. It shall be based on Matriculation/ Higher Seconda ry or an equivalent 
certificate where the date of birth is indicated.  
 
Date of birth, once recorded, shall not be altered unless employee concerned applies for 
correction of his age within three years from the date of entry into University Service. The 
Governing Body will, however, have the discretion to refuse or grant such application and 
no alteration shall be allowed unless it is proved to its satisfaction that the date of birth as 
originally given by the applicant was a bonafide mistake and that he has derived no unfair 
advantage therefrom. The University reserves the right to make a correction in the 
recorded age at any time against the interest of the university employee when it is 
satisfied that the age recorded has been incorrectly entered with the  object that the 
employee may derive some unfair advantage therefrom.

--- PAGE 34 ---
34 | P a g e  
 
b. The Service Book of an employee will contain medical examination report on first 
appointment and will also record educational / professional qualifications at the time of 
appointment or from time -to-time improvement of qualification with permission of the 
Competent Authority. Correctness of the entries regarding educational/professional 
qualifications has to be verified from original certificates.  
 
c. It will also contain nomination for Provident Fund and other terminal benefits, if any. 
 
d. Updated record of all kind of leave except casual will be entered in the service book from 
time to time.  
 
e. The period of suspension and other interruption in service with full details, warning or 
other punishments shall be noted in the Service-book. 
  
iv. It shall be the duty of every employee to see that his Service-book is properly maintained. He 
shall also be required to put his signatures in appropriate column as and when there is any 
change in the emoluments as a proof of his having verified the entries. Every employee shall 
have the right to inspect his Service - book during the first quarter of financial year and his 
signatures will be obtained in confirmation of his having inspected the Service-Book.  
 
14. Personal Files 
Besides the confidential reports on the work and conduct of an official, documents / 
communications, specified below, shall also be placed on the personal files:  
i. Authenticated/attested copies of certificates of age and educational qualifications.  
ii. Originals of 
a. Verification of character and antecedents.  
b. Medical certificate of fitness.  
c. Nomination for PF/Gratuity.  
d. Marital status declaration.  
e. Detail of Family  
f. Collateral evidence of previous service. 
iii. All official communications regarding promotions, upgradations etc.  
iv. All communications, conveying adverse remarks.  
v. Letters of appreciation for outstanding work/performance or an overall   assessment of his 
work and conduct during the year. 
 
 
15. Annual Confidential Reports 
 
The Annual Confidential Reports on the work & conduct of employees shall be written by their 
respective heads, be reviewed by the Dean (Academics) in case of faculty and Registrar in case of 
non-teaching staff and be sent to the Competent Authority as prescribed in the Rules & 
Regulations of the University, for consideration.