--- PAGE 1 ---
HR Manual 
1 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
 
 
 
 
1, PRABHU DAYAL MARG, SANGANER AIRPORT, JAIPUR-302029 
Phone No.: 91-141-3924700 | Fax No.: 91-141-3924738 
www.iihmr.org E-mail: iihmr@iihmr.edu.in | URL: http://www.iihmr.edu.in 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     HR POLICY MANUAL  
 
 
 
April 01,2022  
 
 
 
 
 
CAMPUSES OF INDIAN INSTITUTE OF HEALTH MANAGEMENT RESEARCH:

--- PAGE 2 ---
HR Manual 
2 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Page No. 
 
1. ABOUT THE MANUAL ……………………………………………………. …………………………………………………..  4  
 
1.a.  Purpose of the Manual 
 
2. BACKGROUND………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….  4 
 
2.a.  Mission 
2.b.  Thrust Areas 
2.c.  Environment and Core Values 
2.d.  Organization 
 
3. RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION………………………………………………………………………………………… 9   
 
3.a. Human Resource Planning and its Objectives 
3.b. Source  
3.c. Categories of Employment  
3.d. Classifications of Employment  
3.e. Procedure 
3.f. Honorarium and transportation to the external experts for conducting interview 
3.g. Reimbursement of travel expenses for attending interviews 
3.h. Staff selection process: 
3.i. Outcomes of the selection process: 
3.j.   Power of appointment:  
 
4. JOINING PROCESS ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………..        11 
 
4.a.   Purpose 
4.b.  Joining Formalities  
4.c.   Re-Location 
4.d.   Joining leave (in case of new joining and transfer) 
5. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR THE VARIOUS POSITIONS ……………………………………………………………       14 
 
5.a. Faculty  
4.b. Support Staff  
6. SALARY AND ALLOWANCES…………………………………………………………………………………………………..      17 
 
6.a.  Grade and Pay scale 
6.b. House Rent Allowance 
6.c. Transport Allowance 
6.d  Medical Allowance, Group Mediclaim Policy, Group Personal Accident and ES IC: 
6.e. Books & Periodicals and Dress & Uniform Allowance 
6.f. Grade Pay Allowance 
6.g.  Academic Allowance 
6.h.  Driver and Helper Allowance 
6.i.   Leave Travel Assistance 
6.j.   Provident and Pension Fund 
6.k.   Gratuity

--- PAGE 3 ---
HR Manual 
3 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
 
7. LEAVE POLICY ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 21 
 
7.a.  For permanent staff and employees on contract break-up: 
7.b.  Leaves Applicable on Contractual Staff (Consolidated Salary Appointment) 
7.c. Others 
 
8. TRAVEL/DAILY ALLOWANCE ……………………………………………………………………………………… ……………. 23 
 
9. CONVEYANCE REIMBURSEMENT ……………………………………………………………………………………………… 26 
 
10. ANNUAL APPRAISALS AND REVIEW .………………………………………………………………………………………… 26 
 
11. PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT ………………………………………………………………………………………………. 27 
 
12. FAMILY WELFARE……………………………………………………………………………………………………………… …..     27 
 
13. SAFE WORKPLACE FOR WOMEN …………………………………………………………………………………………… 28 
 
14. ATTENDANCE & WORKING HOURS ……………………………………………………………………………… …......... 28  
 
15. NOTICE PERIOD AND EXIT FORMALITIES ……………………………………………………………………… ………… 28 
 
 
16. TRANSFERABILITY ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 30 
 
17. DUAL EMPLOYMENT/EXTERNAL ASSIGNMENTS ……………………………………………………………………… 30 
 
18. HOLIDAYS ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 30 
 
19. RETIREMENT ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… ………… 30 
 
20. FACILITIES ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 31 
 
21. INDIVIDUAL CONSULTING FOR STAFF IN GR.X, X1, A1 to A4 ……………………………………………………. 32 
 
22. INTERPRETATIONS ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 32 
 
23. DISCIPLINE …………………………………………………………………………………………………………… ………………… 32 
 
24. DEFINITION ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 32 
 
25. INCOME TAX AND OTHER TAXES ………………………………………………………………………… ………………….. 32 
26. LOAN SCHEME ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 32 
 
27. PROFESSIONAL CODE OF CONDUCT FOR SMOOTH FUNCTIONING &   
COHESIVE ENVIRONMENT AT IIHMR ……………………………………………………………………………………… 32 
 
28. CONTACT PERSON ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 33 
 
29. CONCLUSIONS …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 33 
 
30. FORMS AND FORMATS ……………………………………………………………………………………………… …………. 33

--- PAGE 4 ---
HR Manual 
4 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
 
1. ABOUT THE MANUAL 
  
HR policy manual aims to  establish the guidelines for existing and prospective members of IIHMR   to 
create a healthy and professional environment in the organization. Employees of IIHMR   are aimed to get 
familiarized with the work culture of IIHMR, so that they may derive the utmost benefit from the available 
facilities and peer group solidarity. 
 
The policies and benefit plans referred to in  this po licy manua l are int ended to be ongoing, however, 
IIHMR reserves the right to amend, modify or termi nate these plans at any t ime. All the conc erned 
employees would be notified of these changes through notifications and office orders from time to time 
by the competent authority after those dates all superseded policies will be null. Any assistance related to 
this manual may be ob tained from HR. The employees are responsible for reading, understanding, and 
complying with the provisions of this Manual. 
 
1.a.  Purpose of the Manual: 
The HR policy approaches and practices of IIHMR are geared towards: 
 
➢ To provide clear guidelines for the application of human resources functions/systems. 
➢ Attracting and retaining personnel of high quality and credibility. 
➢ Providing an environment for professional excellence and growth. 
➢ Creating a high level of morale and a sense of belonging among employees. 
 
2. BACKGROUND 
 
Indian Institute of Health Management Research  (IIHMR), Society, established under society Act 1958 and 
established IIHMR Jaipur campus. The IIHMR University through the IIHMR University Act, 2014 (Act no.3  
of 2014) by the state government of Rajasthan and recognized by UGC/AICTE, former known as Institute of 
Health Management Research (IIHMR), International Institute of Health Management Research, New Delhi 
and Institute of Health Management Research, Bangalore (South Campus) approved by AICTE. IIHMR has a 
multi-disciplinary character and is a premier Group o f Institutes of Health Management in India. IIHMR is

--- PAGE 5 ---
HR Manual 
5 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
specialized in management research, postgraduate education and tr aining for the last three decades. It 
aims to generate knowledge an d technologies to  provide evidenc e and inputs for developing effective 
policies, health interventions and strategies nationally and internationally.  The management philosophy, 
HR policies and practices of IIHMR derive their character from these commitments. 
 
 
2.a. Mission 
 
IIHMR is dedicated to the improvement in standards of health through better management of health care 
and rel ated programs. It s eeks to a ccomplish this through managem ent research, training, consultati on 
and institutional networking in a national and global perspective.  
 
2.b. Thrust Areas 
 
IIHMR is engaged in research in policy issues, program planning, management, capacity building and post-
graduate education in the health and related sectors. I t undertakes research, training , education and 
consulting activities in the following areas: 
➢ Public Health and Primary Health Care 
➢ Health and Hospital Management 
➢ Pharmaceutical Management 
➢ Population and Reproductive Health 
➢ Nursing Management 
➢ Rural Management 
➢ Health Economics and Finance 
➢ Urban Health 
➢ Nutrition and Health 
➢ Health Communication 
➢ Social and behavioural sciences  
➢ Environmental health 
➢ Information technology in health sector 
➢ General and Human Resource Management

--- PAGE 6 ---
HR Manual 
6 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
➢ Health Research Ethics 
➢ NGO Management and Networking 
➢ Policy and Program Management Research 
2.c. Environment and Core Values 
 
The growth prospect of IIHMR undoubtedly depends on team effectiv eness rathe r tha n individu al 
brilliance. Hence, it becomes necessary that a conscious effort be mad e by all concerned to create and 
develop an environment of  mutual trust, cohesiveness and dependence, through a process of sharing 
knowledge and information without relationships becoming hierarchical, but at the same time respecting 
the values of organiza tional norms. The faculty, research and s upport staff work  together and constitute 
an enabling environment for learning and professional growth and developme nt. IIHMR is committed to 
providing a positive environment in which to work and one that encourages its employees to balance work 
and personal commitments. The core values are. 
  
➢ Openness: sharing of spontaneous feelings, thoughts, ideas, suggestio ns, feedback withou t 
defensiveness while receiving and/or giving directions . Openness is also related to pol icies that are 
clear, frank and accessible.  
➢ Confrontation: facing rather than shying away from problems. It also implies an in-depth analysis of 
interpersonal problems. 
➢ Trust: Main taining t he c onfidentiality of the information shared by others, and not misus ing it. 
Employees have a sense o f assurance that others wil l help when such help is needed and will honor 
mutual commitments and obligations. It is  also reflected in accepting what another person says at 
face value, and not searching for ulterior motives. 
➢ Authenticity: Congruence between what one feels, says and does. It is also reflected in owning up to 
one’s mistakes, and in unreserved sharing of feelings.  
➢ Proaction: Taking initiatives, pre-planning, taking preventive actions, and calculating the payoffs of an 
alternative course before taking action. 
➢ Autonomy: Usi ng and giving freedom to plan and act in one’s sphere. It means respecting and 
encouraging individual and role autonomy.

--- PAGE 7 ---
HR Manual 
7 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
➢ Collaboration: Giving he lp and asking for help from others. Working tog ether (individual or groups); 
team spirit.  
➢ Experimentation: Using and encouraging innovative approach; using feedback for improving, taking a 
fresh look at things, and encouraging creativity.

--- PAGE 8 ---
HR Manual 
8 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
2.d. ORGANIZATION 
IIHMR has a flat organization struct ure and  designed in such a way as to facilitate  group 
processes and as such, one to one reporting resulting in a linear structure has been avoided.

--- PAGE 9 ---
HR Manual 
9 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
 
3. RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION  
 
3.a.  Human Resource Planning and its Objectives 
Human Resourc e Planning is a systematic approach and  shall be carried out in a set procedure to achieving the 
goals of the organization.  
The objective o f human resource planning is to ensu re t he bes t fit  between employees and jobs, avoiding 
manpower shortages or surpluses while reviewing retention practices in IIHMR.  
 
3.b.  Source 
Recruitments are made through a formal process such as advertisement in print media, social media, job portals , 
headhunting a gency etc. as well as through informal sources such as  references (internal & external) , data bank 
and internal candidates. 
 
3.c.   Categories of Employment 
Every position at IIHMR is designated into different forms of employment classific ation, which in turn determines 
how various human resource policies are applied to that position. We recognize the value  of culture and individual 
differences among employees. We believe th at these in dividual differences if properly managed will enable us to 
work efficiently and effectively by creating a productive en vironment where each employee feels valued and where 
everyone unique talents are fully utilized to achieve our mission. We will s trive to eliminate biases in the selection, 
promotion, performance assessment, compensation and learning opportunities. 
 
3.d.  Classifications of Employment  
➢ Employee on Probation :  A newly employed person will be on probation of not more than one year which may 
be exten ded to a further period of not more than six months . However, the person wil l be eli gible for 
proportional benefits as per the rules of IIHMR. The services of an employee on probation may be 
terminated at any time, without any notice during or immediately after the probation period 
➢ Permanent Employe es: A permanent employee has successfully completed his or her probationary period  and 
eligible for all the benefits that accrue from their employment and consistent with their grade.  
➢ Seconded Employees: A seconded employee has been seconded to IIHMR and its other campuses from IIHMR 
University or vice v ersa to assist any of the assignment s. This category of employee s is e ligible for benefits as 
mutually agreed upon by the management.  
➢ Contracted and retainer employees:  Contract employees are hired for a specific time. These may be hired either 
for the P roject or other support/ teaching staff,  contracts of these employees m ay be extended with mutual 
consents. Such employees are appo inted on consolidated or break up salary structure as pe r the need o f IIHMR. 
For contract and retainer staff, terms and conditions mentioned in the appointment letter shall be applicable and 
binding. 
➢ Consultants: Consultants are persons hired to conduct specific project -related tasks and who have no ot her 
responsibilities in IIHMR. Such per sons are likely to be  specifically trained or experts. Consultants are paid on a 
contractually stipulated basis and are not eligible for any employee benefits. 
➢ Management of IIHMR may create more categories as and when needed, such as Adjunct /Visiting Faculty etc.

--- PAGE 10 ---
HR Manual 
10 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
3.e. Procedure 
 
While preparing the annual budget, every department shall submit its human resource budget stating existing, filled, 
and unfilled posts. The campus head shall approve the annual staff budget 
 
The employment f unction is centralized  in the Human Resource Department and all-new hiring will be originated in 
consultation with the President/Director, School Deans / head of the department s. The HR department will maintain 
an up-to-date headcount that is approved by the President/Director and which indicates vacant and filled positions at 
any given time. A vacancy may occur in campuses due  to separation, demise, promotion , or expan sion of the 
activities. To fill an existing / new vacancy, the deans / departmental head will be required to prep are a note which 
includes a Job d escription, desired qualification, experience and c ompetencies, while mentioning salary bracket 
within the budget of the department/ project in writing and complete the employment requisition form.  
 
After the approval o f requisition, the HR department invites applications through formal/ informal process and does 
scrutiny of the CVs as per the requirement stated in the requisition form and further hand over to the 
President/Director/ Deans/HOD. On receipt o f shortlisted CVs from President/Director /Deans/HOD, the HR 
department sends invites to the candidates for the interview through written modes of communications. 
 
3.f. Honorarium and transportation to the panel of external experts for conducting Interviews 
 
S No Honorarium, Transportation, Stay and 
travel expenses for external expert  
Amount 
1. Half day with transportation (local) 2500+ 750 
2. Full Day with transportation (local) 5000+ 750 
3. Half day with  transportation 
(Outstation) 
2500+ reimbursement of train/ air fare + accommodation 
and food at IIHMR Guest House+ pick up & drop. 
4. Full day with transportat ion 
(Outstation ) 
5000+ reimbursement of train/ air fare + accommodation 
and food at IIHMR Guest House+ pick up & drop. 
If transportation is arranged by IIHMR, charges of transportation will not be given to the external expert. 
 
3.g. Reimbursement of Travel Expenses for Attending Interviews for outstation     
              candidate only 
Grade Entitlement 
X and X1 Air Economic class/ II AC returns rail or equivalent on the production of tickets 
A1 to A5 & S1 to S5 II AC returns rail or equivalent on the production of ticket 
A6, S6 & S7 III AC returns rail or equivalent on the production of ticket 
 
In case, a candidate does not submit tickets at the time of the interview, a normal fare of the shortest route will be 
paid. 
No local expenses including stay, lod ging, or conveyance will be provided for attending i nterviews. IIHMR may  
provide a Guest House subject to availability

--- PAGE 11 ---
HR Manual 
11 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
3.h. Staff Selection Process: 
 
Staff selection is the process of det ermining from among the applicants which one best meets the requir ements of 
the job.  The HR department shall be responsible for the coordination and implementation of the selection process. 
A panel shall be constituted as per the cadre of the hiring position. 
 
➢ selection committee shall consist of the following:  
• For President/Director’s selection: Search committe e (Constituted by the Trustee Secretary of  sponsoring 
body) and Chairperson of the University 
• For Dean/faculty sele ction: Chairperson/Trustee Secr etary, President/Director, Dean of School, Subject 
Expert (External)  
• For Vice-President/Director /Registrar’s / General Manager /Dy. Registrar /COE/CF AO selection: 
Chairperson, President/Director, Expert (External) 
• For HOD’s selection:  Vice-President/Director, Registrar, HR Head, Expert (Internal/External) 
• For research staff: Dean of Schools, PI/ faculty, HR Head 
• For support staff: HOD, HR Head, Expert (Internal) 
 
3.i. Outcomes of the selection Process: 
The HR departme nt wil l share t he outcomes o f the  selection c ommittee for  the position of President/Director to 
Chairperson and for the position of Deans, Vice -President/Director, Registrar  and HOD will  be shared with 
Chairman/Trustee Secretary through President/Director for final approval. 
 
For ot her posit ions, HR departments will share the selection committee’s opinion with the President/Director for 
final app roval. Appointments of President/Director, Vice  President, Registrar , CoE ,CFAO Dy. Registrar and General 
Manager will  be sign by the Chairperson/Trustee Sec retary. All o ther ap pointments will be sign ed by the 
President/Director. 
 
3.j.  Power of Appointment:  
 
➢ Appointments to th e posts of President/Director shall be made by the C hairperson/Trustee Secretary of  the 
IIHMR University and IIHMR and approved by the Management board of the IIHMR Society. 
➢ Appointments to the posts of Dean, Faculty,  Registrar, General Mana ger, CF AO, Dy. Registrar, COE, Manager  
(grade A1 -A4 and S1 to S4) shall be made by the President/Director with  the approva l of Trustee Secret ary 
/Chairpersonof the IIHMR /IIHMR University. 
➢ Appointments to other posts shall  be done by t he President/Director on recommendation from the selection 
committee. 
 
4. JOINING PROCESS 
 
IIHMR realizes upon the accuracy of the information contained in the employment application and  the accuracy of 
the other data presented throughout the hiring process and employment. Any misrepresentations, falsifications , or

--- PAGE 12 ---
HR Manual 
12 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
material omissions in any of this inform ation or data may result in the exclusion of the indivi dual from  further 
consideration for employment. 
 
The HR department will initat e reference checks of new hires immediately after releasing the offer. The reference 
check would be done through a third party and will comprise education, professional background and credit check 
through Cibil report. Status of any availed loans,criminal case s if any ongoing are required to be decelared by 
employees. This decelaration will be obtained by the HR department as part of candidate application formand mya 
be reviewed during the interview process by the interviewing panel. 
 
4.a.  Purpose 
 
➢ To procure and verify documents pertaining to employee’s overall background. 
➢ To provide the new employee with the necessary infrastructure to carry out his day -to-day activities  and build 
his/her connection with the institution 
 
4.b.   Joining formalities 
 
➢ It i s essential that at the time of joining, the e mployee subm its a complete set of his testimonials / other 
certificates as mentioned in the Of fer Letter. The HR specifically  examines the originals and verify photocopies 
accordingly. 
➢ Every employee will  be ass igned a unique Employee Code, wh ich will be us ed for all i nternal transactions, 
identification, correspondence, and registration to the Attendance Recording Machine. 
➢ HR will ensure that the following is taken care of: 
• Planning and execution of the onboarding process before joining the employee. 
• Joining formalities as specified in the Joining Checklist.  
• Declaration of dependents and nominees. 
• PF, Gratuity and ESIC nomination forms duly filled. 
• Website Profile and HRMIS Update in software.  
• Arrangement of equipped workstation provided with other administrative needs 
• Arrange temporary staying arrangements, in case of relocation 
• Induction program, which gives a fair idea of IIHMR and its work processes, interfacing departments/colleagues 
and a detailed brief on reporting relationships, job responsibilities. 
• Insurance Policy coverage for GMP, GPA and ESIC as per applicability.  
• The Accounts department will facilitate complete formalities for opening salary account. 
 
➢ On the day of joining, the HR will facilitate to the new entrant: 
• Appointment Letter and TOR, Policy Manual, 
• I-card, V-card, and Library Card (within a week of joining), 
• Workstation with Desktop/Laptop, Printer, Pen D rive, Stationery Kit, intercom and email/ ext ension list as 
per the nature of the work. 
• Email Id, Username and password

--- PAGE 13 ---
HR Manual 
13 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
4.c. Re-Location 
New employees joining IIHMR, who are relocating from their earlier location of work or from their hometown (in 
case o f fresh en trants in  the work world) will be s upported in me eting out t heir expenses incurred due to 
relocation and be provided following assistance for relocation; 
• Travel fare (onward journey only) r eimbursement for a family from their earlier location (only outstat ion) 
will be reimbursed on production of bills as per the following: 
GRADE   JOINING EXPENSES 
X and X1 Air-Economy class w ith shortage route fare or equivalent for 
self, spouse and two dependents. Subject  to one-month basic 
salary or actual whichever is less. 
A1 to A5 and S1 to S5 II AC rail fare or equivalent for self, spouse and two dependents . 
Subject to one-month basic salary or actual whichever is less. 
A6, S6 and S7 III AC rail fare or equivalent for self, spouse and two dependents . 
Subject to one-month basic salary or actual whichever is less. 
 
• Employees will have to claim the joining expens e within the first month of the  joining at IIHMR by applying the 
requisition along with the original tickets to the concerned HR Department. 
• They will also be eligible for relocation/ transportation expenses (outstation only) equivalent to their one -month 
basic salary on the production of bills or actual whichever is less.  
• Staff working on consolidated sala ry shall be paid relocation allowances equivalent to a first bas ic s alary of 
his/her respective grade. All project sta ff will be guided by the project norms and app roval will be done by the 
President/Director in consultation with the Dean/School Dean/Project In charge/Principal Investigator. 
 
4.d.    Joining Leave 
          In case of transfer: 
• Applicability: transfer cases, new joining emp loyees who are joining from  outstation beyond 250 kms 
distance.  
• 7 days joining leave including travel period, can be availed within a month  from date of joining 
In case of new joining:  
• 7 days of joining leave (travel not applicable) can be av ailed within  a month from the date of joining.  
Applicable for an employee who got the appointment for more than six month’s periods.  
• Initial temporary accommod ation in the guest house for up to 2 wee ks ( 15 days).  A w ritten request (via e -
mail) to the HR Head regardi ng booking o f accommodation is to be provi ded by the prospective joiner well in 
advance (preferably, along with the acceptance to a job offer) to ensure t he nece ssary arra ngements in a 
timely and smooth manner.

--- PAGE 14 ---
HR Manual 
14 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
  
5. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR THE VARIOUS POSITIONS 
 
5.a.    Academic Staff 
 
Assistant Professor- Grade A3 & A4 
Essentials: 
• First Class Master’s Degree in Business Management/Administration / in a relevan t management related 
discipline or first class in two-year full -time PGDM declared equivalent by AIU/ ac credited by the 
AICTE/UGC; 
• Ph.D. or MD or Fellow of the Indian Uni versity of Management or a University recognized by 
UGC/AICTE/MCI. Candidates with JRF/NET shall be eligible to apply for the position o f Assistant Professor 
in Grade A3. 
Desirable: 
• Teaching, research, industrial and /or professional experience in a reputed organization; 
Papers presented at Conferences and/or published in refereed journals 
 
➢ Associate Professor-Grade A2 
➢ Essentials: 
• Consistently good academic record with at least 55% marks (or an equivalent grade in a point scale 
wherever grading system i s followed) in Master’s Degree in Business Management / Administration / i n a 
relevant managem ent relate d discipl ine or f irst class in two years full-time PGDM declared equivalent by 
AIU / recognized by the AICTE / UGC; 
• Ph.D. or MD or F ellow of the Indian Univ ersity of Management or University recognized by AICTE and 
declared equivalent by the AIU. 
• A minimum  of eight  years experience of teach ing/industry/research / professional at manag erial level 
excluding the period spent for obtaining the research degree. 
OR 
• In the event , the candidate is from industry and the profession,  the following requiremen ts shall 
constitute as essential requirements: 
• A minimum of 10 -year experience of teaching industry/research/profession, out of which, five years must 
be at the level of Assistant  Professor or equivalent excluding the period sp ent for obtaining the research 
degree. The candi date sho uld have Professio nal wo rk experience, which is significant and can be 
recognized at national /international le vel as equivalent to Ph.D. and 10 years managerial experience in 
industry/profession of wh ich at least five years shoul d be at th e level c omparable t o that of 
lecturer/assistant professor. 
• Should have guided Ph.D. research of at least three Research scholars. 
Desirables 
Without prejudice to the above, the following conditions may be considere d desirable: 
• Teaching, research industrial and/or professional experience in a reputed organization; 
• Published work, such as research papers, patents filed / obtained, books and/or technical reports; and 
• Experience of guiding the project work/ dissertation  of PG/ Research students or su pervising R&D projects 
in the industry.

--- PAGE 15 ---
HR Manual 
15 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
 
➢ Professor- Grade A1 
➢ Essentials: 
• Consistently go od a cademic record with at least 55% marks (or a n equivalent grade  in a point scale 
wherever grading system is followed) in Master’s Degree  in Business Management / Ad ministration / in a  
relevant discipline or consistently good academic record with at least 55% marks (or an equivalent grade in 
a point scale wherever grading system is followed) in two year full -time PGDM declared equivalent by  AIU 
/ recognized by the AICTE/UGC; 
• Ph.D.  or M D or Fel low of the Indian University of Management  or University re cognized by AICTE and 
declared equivalent by the AIU. 
• A minimum of 10 years’ experience of teaching/ industry/ research/professional out  of which five years 
must be at th e level o f Associate Profes sor or equivalent excluding the period spent for obtain ing the 
research degree. 
OR 
• In the event, the candidate is from industry and the profession, the following shall constitute as essential:  
• The candidate should have profession al work ex perience which is  significant and c an be recognized at 
national / International level as equivalent to Ph. D. and twelve years’ managerial experience in industry / 
profession of which at least eight years should b e at least at a level comparable to that of  Associate 
Professor.  
• Should have guided research of at least five Research projects/studies. 
 
Desirables 
 Without prejudice to the above, the following conditions may be considered desirable: 
• Teaching, research, and/or professional experience in a reputed organization. 
• Published work, such as research papers, patents filed/obtained, books and / or technical reports; 
• Experience in guiding the project work/ dissertation of PG/ Research Students or           supervising R&D 
projects in industry; 
• Demonstrated leadership in pl anning and organiz ing academic, research, indus trial and/or p rofessional 
activities; and 
• Capacity to undertake/lead sponsored R&D consultancy and related activities.                        
 
 
➢ President/Director - Grade X and X1 
Essentials 
• Qualification sam e a s those prescri bed fo r the post of profes sor in the releva nt discipline  with   a   
minimum of fifteen years experience of postgraduate teaching/industry/ research. 
OR 
• For candidates from Industry/ Profession: 
• Qualification is the same as those p rescribed for the post of Professor from indus try/ profession s tream 
with fifteen years  experience of postgraduate te aching/research out of which five years must  be at the 
level or Professor in the relevant discipline.

--- PAGE 16 ---
HR Manual 
16 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
Desirables 
• Without prejudice to the above, the following conditions may be considered desirable: 
• Administrative experience o f 10 years in a senior level res ponsible position in the Industry/ professional 
institution. 
 
IIHMR Management may modify eligibility criteria as and  when needed without any no tification in exceptional 
cases. 
 
IIHMR is unique i n the sens e that it is a pioneer to off er sectoral specializat ion integrated with post -graduate 
management degrees in the country. Several of the subjects/ modules are included i n the curr iculum for which 
there is no read y supply market of human resource s, especially in the faculty cadre. To cater  to the uniqueness 
of IIHMR in the domain of healthcare in general and public health in particular, Medical Professionals with 
minimum MBBS and MD  degrees in Commu nity health, Professionals with MPH and MHA may be consi dered. 
This will be applicable in other unique academic programs offered by IIHMR. 
 
5.b. Support and Research Staff 
 
Registrar/General Manager/ CFAO/ DY. Registrar/ CoE /Se nior Manag er / Mana gers (G rades S1, 
S1A, S2, S3 & S4):  
Postgraduates with p rofessional qualification s and exposure in the relevant fields. Ex ceptional cases without 
Professional qualification may also be considered. 
 
Sr. Research Officers/ Project Manage r/ Research Officer s/Project Officer (Grade A 5 and A6): 
Post-Graduate in Man agement/Social Sciences/ Economics/Demogra phy/Finance/ Public Admi nistration and 
Accountancy.  
Addition to the qualification such as M.Phil ./MPH/MHA/MBBS/MPS/Ph.D. will lead toward s the leve l of  the  
Senior Research Officer in grade A5.  
 
Senior officer/Officer/ Executive (Grade S5 and S6)  
Graduate (BCA/PDGCA/BBA/B.Lib. or other relevant subjec t)/Postgraduate/ MCA/CS/ICWA/ CA/M.Lib./ MBA / 
(Management /Finance/ HR/IT/Communications or other relevant subjects) 
 
Supervisors/Accountants /Stenographer/Typist/Assistant (Grade S7):   
Graduates in Soci al Science, Commerce, Ge neral Science and Arts Gra duate with relevant technical 
qualification. 
 
IIHMR Management may modify eligibility criteria as and when needed without any notification.

--- PAGE 17 ---
HR Manual 
17 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
 
6. SALARY AND ALLOWANCES    
6.a.   Grade and Pay Scale: 
 
Grade Pay Scale 
X 120000-12000-180000-22000-290000 
X-1 80000-8000-120000-15000-195000 
A-1 60000-8000-100000-15000-175000 
A-2 45000-6000--75000-12000-135000 
A-3 37400-5000-62400-10000-112400    
A-4 26000-3000-41000-6000-71000      
A-5 12000-600-15000-900-19500-1200-25500 
A-6 10000-500-12500-700-16000-900-20500 
S-1 51000-6000-75000-12000-135000 
S-1A 40000-4000-60000-7200-96000-14400-124800 
S-2 34000-2720-47600-4760-71400-8568-114240 
S-3 24000-1920-33600-50400-6048-80640-12096-104832 
S-4 21000-1680-29400-44100-5292-70560-10584-91728 
S-5 & A-5 16000-960-20800-1664-29120-2912-43680-5242-64648 
S-6&A-6 12800-768-16640-1331-23295-2330-34945-4193-55910 
S-7 11200-672-14560-1165-20385-2039-30580 
No Dearness Allowance is payable to any grades since it has been merged in the basic pay.  
 
6.b. House Rent Allowance 
➢ HRA is fixed at 30% of basic salary at Jaipur and 45% of basic salary at Delhi, Bangalore and Kolkata.  
➢ Norms for the employees, living in accommodation provided/leased by IIHMR: 
• Employee staying in the campus will be charge d a rent @ 15% of basic salary  at Jaipur and 22.5% of 
basic salary at Delhi, Bangalore and Kolkata. 
• Employee staying on the campus on sharing basis will be charged rent @ 10% of the basic salary from 
both the employees. 
• The employee will be a licensee and execute a power of attorney in favor of an officer of IIHMR   
authorized for the purpose. 
• The maintenance expenses (as d etermined from time  to ti me b y IIHMR) of the house and housing 
complex will be recovered from the employee. 
• Whenever the rent is paid by IIHMR   for leased accommodation and if it is higher than the payable of 
the HRA, such excess amount is recoverable from the employee. 
• The accommodation must be vacated by the employee within 30 days in case of tra nsfer or separation 
of employment of IIHMR. 
• All rules and regul ations of the docum ent titled "Rules for Allotment of Residential Accommodation" 
and the amendments from time to time shall be applicable and binding on the employee.

--- PAGE 18 ---
HR Manual 
18 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
6.c. Transport Allowance 
➢ Transport allowance granted to an employee to meet his/her expen diture for the pur pose of commuting 
between the place of his/her residence and the place of his/her duty.  
➢ Transport Allowance is payable to employees in the grade X,X1,S1 TO S7 & A1 TO A4 at the following : 
• X&X1   Rs.4500.00per month 
• S1,S1A,S2 &S3  Rs. 6000.00 per month 
• S4    Rs.5000.00 per month 
• A1 to A4   Rs.4500.00 per month 
• A5 & S5   Rs.  3000.00 per month 
• A6 & S6   Rs.  2000.00 per month 
• S7    Rs.  1500.00 per month 
 
Matter having implicati ons on the income tax of the per son arising out of Transporta tion Allowance shal l 
be the responsibility of the person concerned.  
 
6.d.    Medical Allowance, Group Mediclaim Policy, Group Personal Accident and ESIC: 
IIHMR has a sy stem of Medical Allowance  @5% of the basic salary . Apart from above, employees will al so have 
the benefit of Group Medical Insurance for self, spouse and two children as per available p olicy.  
The sum assured of Mediclaim and GPA (as applicable) is as follows: 
Policy Grade SA 
GMP X and X1 800000 
A1 to A4 and S1 to S4 600000 
A5 toA6 and S5 to S7 500000 
GPA X and X1 1000000 
A1 to A4 and S1 to S4 700000 
A5 toA6 and S5 to S7 700000 
 
In case of staff does not want to cover in Mediclaim and GPA, he/she may inform in writing HR. IIHMR will pay 
fixed Special Allowances in lieu of Mediclaim and GPA @ 500/- per month  subject to the President/Director 
approval. 
 
Mediclaim amount of Rs.650/ -PM (S5-S7) and Rs.8 50/-PM(A1-A4  and S1 -S4) shall be deducted from CTU for 
employee appointed on consolidated salary. 
Any request for register or withdrawal of registration may be given to HR I writing at the time of renewal of the 
insurances ,Mid year request shall not be accepted. 
Employees who are covered under ESIC benefit will not be entitled to Mediclaim and GPA  
benefit. 
 
IIHMR shall cover employees under GPA and GMP within 30 days from the date of joining. 
Matters having implications on the Income T ax arising out of M edical Allowance shall be the respo nsibility of 
the concerned person.

--- PAGE 19 ---
HR Manual 
19 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
 
6.e. Books & Periodicals and Dress & Uniform Allowance 
The following categories of  Academic staff are eligible for Books& Per iodical and support staffs are eligible f or 
Dress & Uniform allowance as per following: 
 
Grade: X, X1   Rs.3500.00 per month  
Grade: A1  Rs.6000.00 Per month 
Grade A2 &S1  Rs.5000.00 per month 
Grade  S1A  Rs.4000.00 per month 
Grade  S2  Rs.3000.00 per month 
Grade: A3 & S4  Rs.2000.00 Per month 
Grade   S3  Rs.2500.00 per month 
Grade: A4 ,A5 & S5 Rs.1500.00 per month  
Grade: A6 & S6  Rs.1000.00 per month  
 
6.f. Grade Pay Allowance 
Grade pay Allowance is payable to employees in the scale of X, X1, A1 to A6 & S1 to S7 at the following rates: 
GRADE AMOUNT IN PM 
X and X1 20000 
A1 18000 
A2 15000 
A3 10000 
A4 8000 
S1  15000 
S1A 13000 
S2 12000 
S3 11000 
S4 7000 
S5 & A5 6000 
S6& A6 5000 
S7 2000 
 
6.g. Academic Allowance 
Academic Allowance is payable to employees on a scale of A1 to A4 at the following rates: 
GRADE AMOUNT IN PM 
X, X1 and A1 Rs.12000 
A2 and A3 Rs.8000 
A4 Rs.4000

--- PAGE 20 ---
HR Manual 
20 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
6.h.  Driver and Helper Allowance 
Driver allowance is applicable for support staff and Helper allowance is for Academic  Staff at the  following 
rates: 
GRADE AMOUNT IN PM 
X, X1, A1, A2, A3 and A4 2000 
S1 and S1A, S2, S3, S4 2000 
 
6.i.  Leave Travel Assistance: 
Leave Travel Assistance is applicable to X, X1, A1 to A6 & S1 to S6 grade of IIHMR. A person can avail LTA only 
after one-year service with IIHMR. Eligibility for LTA is once in two years. It will be calculated at the rate of 10% 
of the total basic salary drawn by the employee in the last financial year. To avail of this, the employee has to 
be on earned leave for at least 6 days. First/subsequent LTA can be taken after completion of one year from the 
previous availed LTA as per block year effective from the joining date of the individual.  Approval for LTA is to be 
taken by the employee at least 30 days in advance. Ho wever, the dates may be changed according t o the needs 
of IIHMR. An employee on probation is not eligible for LTA. 
 
Matters having implications on the Income Tax arising out of LTA sh all be the re sponsibility of the person 
concerned. 
Process:  
For applying LTA employees shall apply to the HR depa rtment through his/her reporting supervisor. After that 
HR shall check the eligibility and entitlement of the employee and based on that HR will issue a sa nction letter 
to the employee. 
Employee may submit a request  to the accounts department along with the sa nction letter for the advance for 
LTA which is normally 75% of the total eligibility amount. For settling LTA advance, an employee shall submit all 
bills (only travel) to the accounts department within 07 days f rom the date of return from LTA. The accounts 
department will settle LTA amount as per the eligibility. 
 
6.j.  Provident and Pension Fund: 
 
Coverage of employees under Provident Fund will be i n ac cordance with t he rules of EPFO or BPFT as 
applicable. While onboarding, HR department will process all statutory requirements as per the norms of PF.  
 
6.k.  Gratuity: 
Gratuity is payable in accordance with the Gratuity Act, 1972. 
A person becomes eligible for Gratuity only after completion of 5 years of continued services

--- PAGE 21 ---
HR Manual 
21 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
 
7. LEAVE POLICY 
 
7.a. For permanent staff and employees on contract break-up:  
 
➢ Earned Leave (EL) 
 
Earned Lea ve (EL) will be computed at the rate of 24 days for every year calculated  on a quarterly basis  from 
April to March. Those joining service s at any time after the 1 st day of April will hav e the ir EL  computed 
proportionately from the date of joining. EL can be availed only four times a year. Accumulated EL beyond 40 
days can be en-cashed on the basic pay based on March basic salary every year against adjustment of equivalent 
days of acc umulated leave. A maximum of 40 days EL shall be  carried over to the subse quent year.  The Earned 
Leave cannot be clubbed with RH or CL. Sun days and hol idays that fall during the spell of the EL will also be 
treated as leave. The decision to sanction the leave is purely at the discretion of the Management. 
It is expected that e mployees plan their EL judiciously to avoid any dislocation to th e smooth funct ioning of 
IIHMR.   
 
➢ Contingency Leave (CL) 
 
Contingency Leave (CL) is meant to meet situation s arising out of sickness or any other personal contingencies. 
Maximum CL allowed during a financial  year is 1 0 days. Allotment 5 CLs half y early, in beginning A pril and 
October month every year. proportionate CL will be credited to a new joining employee with effect from his/her 
date of Joining. The maximum period for which CL can be t aken is not more than 3 days at a time, RH, Holidays 
and weekly offs falling during the spell of CL will not be counted as CL. Exceeding th ree days of CL will be treated 
EL a s per availabl e ba lance or LWP.  RH, Holidays an d weekly offs falling during the s pell of EL/LWP will be 
considered as a continuous leave. CL cannot be clubbed with any kind of leave like Earned Leave, Paternity Leave 
and Maternity Leave. An un-availed portion of CL will lapse at the end of FY. 
 
➢ Maternity Leave 
 
The provision of matern ity benefits shall be provided to a female employee on the production of a medical 
certificate for 12 weeks. 
 
➢ Paternity Leave 
 
• The Paternity Leave will be granted to male  employees, for a maximum of two weeks, for each childbirth if 
an employee has work ed for one year with the organization. Paternity leave c annot be combined with any 
other kind of leave and can be availed only in two blocks within a month from the birth of the child. 
 
7.b. Leaves Applicable on Contractual Staff (Consolidated Salary Appointment) 
 
➢ Contingency Leave (CL) 
 
Contingency Leave (CL) is meant  to meet situations  arising out of sickness or any other personal contingencies . 
Maximum CL allowed during a financi al year is 1 5 days. Allotment 7.5 CLs hal f-yearly, in beginning April  and

--- PAGE 22 ---
HR Manual 
22 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
October month every year. proportionate CL will be credited to a n ew joining employee with effect from his/her 
date of Joining.  The maximum peri od for which CL can be taken is as pe r available balance at a time, RH, 
Holidays and weekly offs falling during the spe ll of CL will not be counted as CL.  Apparently, these wil l be 
counted as con tinued leave, if there is no leave balance available with an  Individual. In case of LWP all holid ays 
falling between the LWP period will be counted as LWP. Un-availed portion of CL will be lapsed at the end of FY. 
 
➢ Maternity Leave 
The pr ovision of maternit y bene fits shall be provided to f emale employee on productio n of 
medical certificate for a period of 12 weeks. 
 
➢ Paternity Leave 
• The Patern ity Leav e will be granted to male  employees, for a maximum of two  weeks, for each 
childbirth if an employee has wor ked for one y ear with the organization. Paternity leave c annot be 
combined with any other kind of leave  and can be avai led only in two blocks within a month from the 
birth of the child. 
7.c.  Others 
 
➢ Compensatory Off (CO) 
• Staff falling under the grade-S5-S7 may avail compensatory off if they are working on a week off/ closed 
holiday due to any office assignment .  The supervisor will approve leave while mentionin g the reason 
for attending offic e on a non-working day. CO shall be consumed within a week tim e o f the 
compensatory workday. CO is not applicable while on the official tour.  
Process (For Official Tours & Leaves) 
 
A leave application form signed by self and approved by the reporting authority is required to be submitted to the HR 
Department well in advance.  The same is applied to the tour program. One copy of  Tour Program is to be submitted 
to A/C Dept. and  other one to HR De partment. However, in case of unforesee n circumstances, one can submit t he 
application, post facto. It is also advised to keep t he colleagues informed of any  planned leave to ensure the sm ooth 
functioning in employee’s absence. The decision to sanction the leave is purely at the discretion of the management. 
 
• President/Director: Leave applications & tour Programs shall be approved by Chairman. 
• Faculty: Faculty’s leave applications & tour programs will  be forwarded by School Dean to the 
President/Director for final approval. President/Director Office will send to HR depar tment for information and 
record keeping. 
• Registrar/ Dy. Regist rar an d HODs :  Leave applica tions & tour Programs shall be a pproved by  the 
President/Director. 
• Research Staff: Research staff will take approval from his/her PI and will also inform to Dean  Research if going 
for leave for longer duration more than 03 days. 
• Support Staff: Support staff will seek approval from their HODs.

--- PAGE 23 ---
HR Manual 
23 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
 
8. TRAVEL/DAILY ALLOWANCE 
 
Grade Travel Eligibility 
X, X1, A1 to A3, S1 to S3 & S1-A Air Economy Class or equivalent 
A4, A5 & S4, S5 2nd AC Rail or equivalent 
A6, S6 & S7 3rd AC Rail or equivalent 
 
• Reservation charges– For seat/ sleeper berth are reimbursable on production of bills/receipt. 
• Tatkal Seva  charges –  Reimbursement  allowed  i n  emergent  circumstances  only  for  Railwa y journeys 
undertaken for official purposes. 
• Internet/e-ticketing charges– Reimbursable for the tickets booked through the website of Indian Railways.  
• Cancellation charges- For offici al journeys cancelled in pu blic interest, cancellation and reservation c harges 
are reimbursable.  
• All the official air/train/bus tickets should be booked through the concerned Administration Department. 
 
For outstation official travel of Staff:  Per Diem Rates for stay & food expenses 
 
Grade X and X1 
For Metros /Kolkata/ 
Delhi/Chennai/Mumbai / Bengaluru/ 
Hyderabad/ Ahmedabad 
Per   diem (Flat   rate) Rs.   2000/-   per   day 
without bills. No incidentals will be payable 
 
Maximum Per diem Rs .4000/- per day on  production of  Bills for  stay  
&  food  charges and  Rs.750/ -  per  day  will  be  payable  as incidental 
charges (fixed) without bill. 
State   Capitals   other 
then metros cities 
Per   diem (Flat   rate) Rs.   2000/-   per   day 
without bills. No incidentals will be payable. 
Maximum per diem Rs.  4000/-  per day on producti on of bills for stay  
& food  charges and  Rs. 750/-  per day will be payable as  incidental 
charges (fixed) without bill. 
For all other places Per   diem (Flat   rate) Rs.2000/-   per   day 
without bills. No incidentals will be payable. 
Maximum per diem Rs .  3000/- per day on production of Bills for stay 
& food charges and Rs.  750/- per day will   
be payable as incidental charges (fixed) without bill.

--- PAGE 24 ---
HR Manual 
24 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
Grade A1 to A3, S1 to S3 & S1-A 
For Metros Kolkata/Delhi/ 
Chennai/Mumbai/Bengaluru/ 
Hyderabad/Ahmedabad 
Per   diem (Flat rate) Rs. 1350/-   per   day 
Without bills. No incidentals will be payable. 
 
Maximum Per diem Rs. 3200/- per day on production of Bills for stay & 
food charges an d Rs. 300/- per da y will be payable as incidental 
charges (fixed) without bill. 
State   Capitals   other 
then metros cities 
Per   diem (Flat   rate) Rs.  1350/- per day 
Without bills. No incidentals will be payable. 
 
Maximum per diem Rs. 2400/- per day on production of bills for stay & 
food charges and Rs. 300/- per day will be pa yable as incidental 
charges (fixed) without bill. For all other places Per   diem (Flat   rate) Rs.1350/-   per   day 
without bills. No incidentals will be payable. 
 
Maximum per diem Rs. 1800/- per day on production of Bills for stay & 
food charges and Rs. 300/- per day will b e payable as incidental 
charges (fixed) without bill. 
For Grade A4 & S4 
For Metros Kolkata/Delhi/ 
Chennai/Mumbai/Bengaluru/ 
Hyderabad/Ahmedabad 
Per diem (Flat rate) Rs. 1100/- per day without bills. No incidentals will 
be payable. 
 
Maximum per diem Rs. 2400/- per day on production of Bill s or stay & 
food charges and  Rs. 300/- per day will be payab le as incid ental 
charges (fixed) without bill. 
State Capitals Per diem (Flat rate) Rs. 1100/- per   day 
without bills. No incidentals will be payable. 
 
Maximum per diem Rs. 1800/- per day on production of Bills for stay & 
food charges and  Rs. 300/- per day will be payable as inci dental 
charges (fixed) without bill. 
For all other places Per diem (Flat rate) Rs. 1100/- per day 
without bills. No incidentals will be payable. 
 
Maximum per diem Rs. 1350/- per day on production of Bills for stay & 
food charges and Rs. 300/- per day  will be payable as incidenta l 
charges (fixed) without bill.

--- PAGE 25 ---
HR Manual 
25 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
Grade A5, A6, S5 & S6 
For Metros Kolkata/Delhi/ 
Chennai/Mumbai/Bengaluru/ 
Hyderabad/Ahmedabad 
Per diem (Flat rate) Rs. 900/- per   day 
without bills. No incidentals will be payable. 
 
Maximum per diem Rs. 1800/- per day on production of Bills for stay & 
food charges and Rs. 225/- per day will be payable as incide ntal 
charges (fixed) without bill. 
State Capitals Per diem (Flat rate) Rs. 900/- per day 
without bills. No incidentals will be payable. 
 
Maximum per diem Rs. 1350/- per day on production of Bills for stay & 
food charges and  Rs. 225/- per day will be payable as incidental 
charges (fixed) without bill. 
For all other places Per diem (Flat rate) Rs. 900/- per day 
without bills. No incidentals will be payable. 
 
Maximum per diem Rs. 900/- per day on production of Bills for stay & 
food charges and  Rs. 225/- per day will be payable as incidental 
charges (fixed) without bill. 
 
Grade S7 
For Metros Kolkata/Delhi/ 
Chennai/Mumbai/Bengaluru/ 
Hyderabad/Ahmedabad 
Per diem (Flat rate) Rs. 700/- per day 
without bills. No incidentals will be payable. 
 
Maximum per diem Rs.1350/- per day on production of with bills for 
stay & food charges and Rs. 150/- per day will be payable as incidental 
charges (fixed) without bill. 
State Capitals Per diem (Flat rate) Rs. 700/- per day 
without bills. No incidentals will be payable. 
 
Maximum per diem Rs. 900/- per day on production of bills for stay & 
food charges and  Rs. 150/- per day will be payable as incidental 
charges (fixed) without bill. 
For all other places Per diem (Flat rate) Rs. 700/- per day 
without bills. No incidentals will be payable. 
 
Maximum per diem Rs. 600/- per day on production of bills for stay & 
food charges and Rs. 150/- per day will be payable as incidental 
charges (fixed) without bill. 
 
Travel between JPR-DEL-JPR, JPR -MUMBAI-JPR, JPR -CHANDIGARH-JPR, JPR -BHOPAL-JPR, JPR-LUCKNOW-JPR, 
JPR-SHIMLA-JPR, from Delhi to Chandiga rh, Bh opal, Punjab, Lucknow e tc. and  from Bangalore to all s outhern 
state and  Mumbai should be done by train to the ext ent possi ble. Wh erever IIHMR   is able t o p rovide

--- PAGE 26 ---
HR Manual 
26 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
guesthouse facilities, the same  must be availed. In case of guest house facilities avai led, o nly 50% of flat per 
diem will be allowed. 
 
• The above p er diem ch arge includes stay & food expenses. No other incidental expenses are payable. For 
journey/travel time, only incidental expenses wi ll be payable at the rate of 40% of the above flat per d iem 
charges.  Local travel within the city will be paid extra on actual undertaken by auto/Taxi/other public 
transport. 
• Outstation Travel continuous more than 60 days will be treated as deputation.  P er Diem per month charges 
while on deputation or transfer to field/project office will be calculated at the rate of 50% of basic salary per 
month. In that case, local conveyance will be reimbursed as per actual. 
• Per diem charges for within municipal/Delhi-NCR area will be as follows: 
o Tour not exceeding 8 hrs - Nil 
o Tour exceeding 8 hrs but not exceeding 12hrs - 70% of flat per diem 
o Tour exceeding 12hrs - 100% of flat per diem 
• Travelling and per  diem charges are reimbursed or paid by project sponsoring agency  on actual expenses 
incurred and on production of actual  bills of Travels; in that case travel and per diem char ges may vary from 
the above rates and will be applica ble as per  project sanctioned budget, subject to approval of the Head of 
the concerned Campus. 
 
All official travel must be approved by the authori ty in approved format (Tour Programme) before start of t he 
travel.  
All the Travel bills are required to be submitted in approv ed forma t to Accounts Department within 3 days of 
return from the tour. 
 
9. CONVEYANCE REIMBURSEMENT 
Personnel of IIHMR owning vehi cles will be eligible  for reimbursement of running expenses involved in use of 
vehicles for the official work at the following rates: 
 
Car Rs.10.00 per km. (For grade X, X1, A1 to A4 & S1 to 
S4 only) 
 
Scooter/Motorcycle   Rs.  6.00 per km. (For all grades) 
 
     
10. ANNUAL APPRAISAL and REVIEW  
 
• INCREMENTS & PROMOTIONS 
  
IIHMR has an increment and promotion system through 270-degree appraisal system. Grant of increment shall 
be discretionary. Increments shall be granted only upon satisfaction of author ities a s to p erformance of  the 
employee. Increments will be on the basis of time scale prescribed and will normally be effected in Apri l every 
year. However, the time scale will not be a constraint for rewar ding notable performances. IIHMR may also

--- PAGE 27 ---
HR Manual 
27 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
reward good performance by provi ding in cash or in  kind or otherwise. Thos e confirmed on regular basis on or 
before 1 st October (i.e.  six mont hs) shall be eligible for increment in April next year. Though, normally , 
increments will be granted to every person , poor performance or other negative factors may lead to increment 
not being granted. A probationer will not be entitled to get increment during probationary period. 
Increments for contractual staff is applicable after one-year completion from the date of joining.  
IIHMR promotion policy is tuned to providing promotion/growth opportunities of  its existing employees. 
Promotion will be based on performance and suitability for the higher position. 
Process 
 
HR depa rtment initiates the process of annual a ppraisal every y ear in  the month o f February in consultation 
with the President/Director of the University/Institute. Appraisal forms a re sent t o all eligible employee of the 
university/Institute through email with a  request to fill and route it through supervisor for per formance review 
and submit to the President/Director office. President/Director Office sends all the appraisa l to HR Department 
for c onsolidation of the data along with em ployee’s existing professiona l and educational information.HR 
department prepares and submit to President/Director office for further direction. 
For any additional increme nt or cash reward or P romotion, President/Director may ali gn with the approved 
annual budget and send his/her recommendation to Chairman/Trustee Secretary for approval.  
 
11. PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
 
IIHMR   encourages participati on of its personnel in professional seminars/con ferences. Fo r partici pation in  
external and internal programmers, prior approval of the President/Director is necessary. Normally, the 
President/Director sponsors staf f for such external developmental activiti es. Whenever a c andidate is 
sponsored for a long duration p rogramme or a high  cost sho rt duration programme, the University/Instittue 
would ask for a service bond to be signed. 
Traveling allowan ce for  participation in external programmes will be reimburs ed as per the eligibility of the 
person. Whenever a candidate is sponsored for programmes costing Rs. 25,000/ - or above, the employee shall 
be liable to execute a service bond as agreed between employee concerned and management. 
IIHMR encourages participa tion of its personnel in se minars/conferences. For particip ation in external and  
internal programs, prior approval of the Campus Head is necessary. 
Faculty and Research staff is encouraged to writ e publications and same will be awarded as per the publicati on 
policy.  
Individual consulting provision is available for faculty. 
 
12. FAMILY WELFARE 
 IIHMR is firmly committed to the cause of planned and  small family. E mployee having two children of which 
one or bo th are fema les, will be provided a 16 years fixed depo sit scheme in th e name of each girl child 
equivalent to maturity value of Rs.40,000/. This facility will be extended after the younger child has attained the 
age of 2 years as on 1st April 2000 or  later. This sche me is applicable only if one of the spouse undergoes 
permanent sterilization after one or two children.  
Any employee wishi ng to for mally adopt a child will be paid Rs.400/ - p.m. till that child atta ins the age of 18 
years.

--- PAGE 28 ---
HR Manual 
28 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
Any childless couple, after five years of marriage, willing to undergo medi cal treatment for fertility will get 80% 
of total expenses on production and approval of bills, subject to an overall limit of  
Rs.25, 000/-. 
 
13.SAFE WORKPLACE FOR WOMEN: 
 
IIHMR is committed to follow the guidelines stipulated by Hon’ble Supreme Court of I ndia with regard to Sexual 
Harassment of Women at  Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013  and to providing work 
environment that ensure s every employee is treated with dignity and re spect and a fforded equitable 
treatment. IIHMR is also committed to pr omoting a work environment that is  conducive to the p rofessional 
growth o f its employees and encourages equality of opportuni ty. IIHMR will not tolerate any form of sexual 
harassment and is committed to take all necessary steps to ensure tha t its employees are not subjected to any 
form of harassment. Internal Complaint  Committee has been Constituted under the law who take cares of 
related issues. 
 
14.ATTENDANCE & WORKING HOURS 
The official working hours are from 9:30 am to 5:30 pm including 30 minutes lunch break from 1:30 pm to 2:00 
pm. However, timings may be relaxed to suit the needs and circumstances at the discretion of the Management. 
Late coming is discouraged. In and out attendance is to be ma rked in the biometric thumb impression mach ine 
available at the Reception. Employees reporting after 9 :45 am wi ll have to apply for  Contingency Leave. 
However, permission may be granted by the Heads of the Departments/concerned faculty in extraordinary cases 
to meet the unforeseen circumstances or circumstances beyond one’s own control. However, in such ca ses 
information of l ate comin g should be given to the Head of the department s` along with Reception or HR 
Department. Reaching office between 9 :30 am and 9:45 am, without any information , will be treated as lat e 
coming and 3 such late comings wil l be treat ed as half day CL. T he staff going out for any work during office 
hours should su bmit approved application to HR Department and mark an entry in the Staff in & out register at 
Reception. 
 
15.NOTICE PERIOD and EXIT FORMALITIES 
 
The services of any  person can be term inated or w ithdrawn by either side giving written no tice of 2 months in 
grade X & X1, 1 months in grade A1 to A4 & S1 to S4 and 1 month in grade A5, A6, S5,S6 & S7. 
In the absence of notic e as above, basic salary in lieu of notice period  shall be payable. For those o n probation, 
there will not be any requirement for notice, from either side, or for any payment in lieu of such notic e. 
Like on -boarding, exit process is a lso very critical and needs to be facilitated effectively to ensure emp loyee’s 
smooth transition from the institution.   
 
Process: 
 
Resignation Acceptance Letter:  Subsequent to the approval on the resignation; HR will hand o ver the 
Resignation Acceptance L etter to the departing  employee. This letter w ill briefly apprise him/h er about c harge 
hand-over and settling the dues. In case of termination, the notice will comprise all above details.

--- PAGE 29 ---
HR Manual 
29 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
• No Dues Certificate: HR will i ssue a  No Dues Fo rm in the name of the  departing employee an d get it 
signed by all t he concerned including th e immediat e reporti ng authorit y.  Based  on this, HR will 
establish that there are no such d ues pending in his/her name or if any such dues are refl ected, will be 
reported while preparing the full & final statement. 
• Charge Handover: The employee has to hand  over all the belongings of IIHMR   to the employee taking 
charge. A formal handing over/ t aking over charge with due paper work has to be done. It is the  
responsibility of the i mmediate reporting authority t o ensure the prope r charge handover; and confirm 
HR about t he same b efore the f ull & fin al payment is processe d. The charge handover mechani sm 
should be initiated at least 6 months before the due date of departure. 
• Full and Final Settlement:  
o The HR shall prepare and send t he fu ll and final settlement st atement of  the empl oyee to the  
Accounts incorporating and settling all the dues, notice per iod deficit days, advances, etc. with the 
amount payable  e.g. leave enca shment, paymen t of gratuity, other allowance s, and salary of t he 
last working month.  
o The Accounts will hand over the full and final settlement cheque/ RTGS/ NEFT/DD to the employee 
within a within a week period from the date of relieving.  
• Relieving Letter and Letter for experience will be issued by HR on the date of relieving. 
• PF and Pension Fund withdrawal / transfer forms will be given to the employee by HR and as per his/her 
preference, process of withdrawal or transfer would be initiat ed. For withdrawal, employee will submit 
copy of Aadhar Card, Form 16 and cancelled cheque. 
• TDS Certificate w ill be for warded to  the mail a ccount of  an employee by Accoun ts at the end of the 
financial year. 
• Exit Interview 
An Exit Interview is typically a m eeting between HR head and a departing employee, usually who  has voluntarily 
resigned.  
All such certificates shall be specifically addressed and shall not be issued as to whom so ever it may concern. 
Purpose 
• To gather data for improving working conditions and retaining employees. 
• To determine and document the reasons of employees leaving the Institution. 
• To provide an opportunity for the airing of unresolved grievances, and to provide constructive feedback 
to improve effectiveness and/or efficiency of institution’s operations and/or employees’ quality of life. 
Process: 
1. The exit interview would be conducted by the HR on the date when the employee is being relieved. 
2. During the time of Interview, sufficient privacy should be ensured. 
3. The interview should be ai med at  gathering the emplo yee feedback about the reasons for  his/her 
leaving the institution, his/her opinions about policies/ systems/ procedures of the institution. 
4. The Exit Interview Form must be filled by the departing employee. 
5. Completed forms shall b e kept in the personnel records of the departing employee an d the HR will give 
the quarterly feedback to the President/Director.

--- PAGE 30 ---
HR Manual 
30 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
16.TRANSFERABILITY 
 
Service of persons workin g in IIHMR   is transferable. This would include transfer from one job to another , one 
location t o another in  the University or other campuse s of the Society or transfer to any associate/sis ter 
organizations. In case of transfer to any associate /si ster organization, the person sh all have the privilege of 
continuity of employment and terms in the new organization shall not be less favorable. 
 
17.DUAL EMPLOYMENT/EXTERNAL ASSIGNMENTS 
While being in the service of IIHMR, no person shall take up an employment or assignment even on part  time or 
causal basis of whatever nature anywhere else, without the writ ten approval of the President/Director. Any 
income or reimbursement received must be disclosed to IIHMR. 
 
18.HOLIDAYS 
 
IIHMR declares 11 days of paid holidays, inclusive of 3 optional holidays in a year. The optional holidays can be 
availed from January to December and cannot be clubbed with Earned Leave. 
 
List of closed and optional holidays will  be given to the em ployee at t he time o f joining during the orientation.  
List of holidays will be declared every year in the month of December for next year. 
 
Weekly Off at IIHMR   shall be Sunday, unless otherwise substituted. 2nd & 4th Saturday of every month shall be 
closed. 
 
19.RETIREMENT 
Retirement policy provides a statement of  IIHMR 's approach to employee retirement.  IIHMR believes that a cle ar 
policy will assist employees in pl anning for their retire ment, or for an extension of their working lives.  Age of 
retirement at IIHMR is 58 years . The retirement date is the end of the month follow ing the staff member's 58th 
birthday. extension beyond t he sup erannuation can be consider ed for deserving employees,  based on IIHMR 
requirement. The process to be followed in either case will be as follows: 
PROCEDURE: 
HR shall notify to superannuating empl oyee at least 03 months Prior to his /her anticipated ret irement date with a 
copy to the head of the department of respective employee.  HR will facilitate to employee for smooth departure.  
• The HR will in form the HOD/ President/Director (in case of faculty ) to initiate discussion with superannuating 
employee to facilitate departure in phased manner and handing over charge to the successor. 
• The candidate  being consider ed for ext ension wi ll be asked  for his/ her willingness and  terms of reference for 
extension will be discussed for extension. 
• An offer o f extension prepared on the basis of discussion will be given to the em ployee at least two months in 
advance.

--- PAGE 31 ---
HR Manual 
31 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
• Acceptance of the offer by t he superannuating employee would follow by a reappointment letter for an initi al 
period of one year in most cases.  
• In case of extension to be extended beyond one year the same process will be followed. 
• For the employees where no extensi on is on c ards, there would be facilitation for smooth transition from work 
life. 
 
20.FACILITIES 
 
➢ Housing 
 
An o n-campus housing facility is avai lable for  the employees (Jaipur only) . It can be availed by fo rwarding the 
requisition for housing to the concerned HR Department. However, it depends on the availability.  
 
Charges for staff quarters:  As per HRA norms. Charges for Maintenance, water & electri city: time to time notified by 
IIHMR   management. 
 
Norms for residing at staff qua rters: "Rules for Allotment of Residential Accommodation" and the amendments from 
time to time shall be applicable and binding on the employee 
 
➢ Canteen 
 
The canteen facility is open for the staff. The staff is req uired to have t heir lunch in the canteen. Also, they can get 
meals fro m the cant een by pa ying on th e spot o r in advance. The staff is requested not to order anything 
immediately prior to or in between any of the meals.  
 
➢ Guest House(GH) 
 
The staff can avail o f the Guest Hou se facility for their friends or  relatives as per II HMR’s GH norms. They can send a 
request to the Guest House In-charge/Admin Head and the facility may be provided based on the availability. 
 
➢ Reception 
 
The Reception at IIHMR is a 24 hours facility. Phone facility is available for all the staff for official communication.  
 
➢ Lab and Library 
 
Library, Lab and IT Assistance are available for all the staff during the working hou rs. Staff can apply for th e Library 
membership, official Email Id, in ternet access a nd desktop/laptop, pen drive, da ta card (if eligibl e) during the 
orientation.

--- PAGE 32 ---
HR Manual 
32 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
Salary Disbursement 
 
The employees of IIHMR are required to open their A/C with any of the HDF C Bank Branches or as spec ified by the 
Management. Salary is directly  credited to t he employee Account. Employees c an seek assistance f rom the 
concerned Accounts Department for opening a bank account. 
 
21. INDIVIDUAL CONSULTING FOR STAFF IN GR.X, X1, A1 to A4 
Individual consult ing pr ovision is available for academic sta ff in Grade s X, X 1, A1 to A4 as per the rul es and 
regulations governing this provision at IIHMR. Normally, a consulting provision will be made for 30 days in a financial 
year on sharing on two third basis. 
Process: Faculty may apply to President/Director along with the consulting form and consultancy details for approval. 
An approved copy of consulting form and agreement with the tour program shall be shared with Accounts and HR 
departments for record and necessary action. 
 
22. INTERPRETATIONS 
On any interpretation of matters contained in this manua l or otherwise, the decision of the Management or Board of 
Management shall be final. 
 
23. DISCIPLINE: 
Every employee of IIHMR   shall perform his duties under strict dis cipline keeping in view the dignity and deco rum of 
IIHMR. 
 
24. DEFINITION: 
• Staff means " persons employed by IIHMR".  
• Year means the "12 months of a calendar year from 1st January to 31st December". 
• Financial year means "the period of 12 months starting from 1st April to 31st March”.  
• Management means the "Management Board/Board of Management". 
• Appointing Authority means the " Management Board /Board of Management or its nominee" 
 
25. INCOME TAX AND OTHER TAXES 
All matter s of taxes, where central state or l ocal, applicable to an employee will be the responsibility o f the 
concerned person. IIHMR   will deduct and deposit the same as and when required by such authorities. 
  
26. LOAN SCHEME: 
IIHMR   provide loan to different categories of persons working at IIHMR   on reaso nable interest rate. These are 
provided as per the guidelines issue d from time to time. Sanction  of loan is wholly on the dis cretion of t he 
President/Director of IIHMR. 
 
27. PROFESSIONAL CODE OF CONDUCT FOR SMOOTH FUNCTIONING & COHESIVE ENVI RONMENT AT IIHMR 
 
• Employees should maintain a pr ofessional wor k environment keepin g team spirit, mutual respect  and tr ust of 
utmost importance.

--- PAGE 33 ---
HR Manual 
33 
   
      
 
IIHMR  
 
MR) 
 
• Employees must come clean, well-groomed and inappropriate formal attire.  
• Employees should keep office premises  neat and clean, dispose of waste items in dustbins  only and if  they find 
any waste lying on the floor then they should volunteer or immediately ask the Housekeeping Department.  
• Employees should not waste the electricity, switch off all the electrical equipment and shut down the computers 
when not in use. Remember, it is for the individual and nations benefit. 
• Employees should not waste paper, water or other green resources in order to boost eco-friendly practices. 
• Maintain a balanced approach in personal and professional life. 
• Employees should keep their personal belongings and valuables in lock and key. IIHMR is n ot responsible for any 
theft or loss.  
• Employees are not allowed to smoke at their workstations, they may use the allocated smoking zone.  
• Drugs and alcohol are strictly prohibited in the Campus.  
• Employees are not allowed to carry any kind of arms and ammunition to the workplace. 
 
Every employee of IIHMR is expected to perform his/her duties under policy guidelines keeping in view the dignity 
and decorum of IIHMR.  
 
28. CONTACT PERSON 
 
For any quer y or emerge ncy that arises at IIHMR or in the field, staff m ay contact  the concerned Administ ration 
Department or Vice President, IIHMR. 
 
29. CONCLUSIONS 
 
The provisions contained above, in this policy Manual, are mere guidelines and not exhaus tive. In the event of a ny 
dispute ar ising out of, or pertaining to , or related to these rules, the decisi on of th e Appointing Authority shall be 
final. Similarly, for the contingencies not covered by these p rovisions, the decision of the Appointing Authority shall 
be final. The Appointing authority reserves the absolute rig ht to change, vary, add or delete an y provision contained 
herein above at any stage and an employee shall not be entitled to raise any gru dge against it. All legal matters will 
be dealt with within the Jurisdiction of the Jaipur High Court only. 
 
30. FORMS AND FORMATS: 
All prescribed forms and formats related to various applications are annexed. Following are the details of Annexures: 
Annexure 1 - Joining Formalities 
Annexure 2 - Appraisal and Annual Activities 
Annexure 3 - Exit Formalities 
Annexure 4 - Others