--- PAGE 1 ---
Where Practice Meets Theory 
 
HUMAN RESOURCE POLICY MANUAL  
 
 
 
 
 
February 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Indus Campus, P O Rancharda, Via: Thaltej, 
Ahmedabad 382 115 
Gujarat India

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
 
I N D E X 
 
Chapter 
No. 
Para 
No. 
 
 
Title  
Page 
No. 
1  Introduction 7 
 1.1 University Statements 7 
2  Service Rules of Indus University 8 
 2.1 Definitions 8 
 2.2 Preamble  9 
 2.3 Code of Conduct for Teaching and Non-Teaching 
Staff 
9 
3  Authorities of the University and Subordinate 
Staff 
18 
 3.1 President 18 
 3.2 Associate President  19 
 3.3 Executive President  19 
 3.4 Dean Academics 21 
 3.5 Dean Research 22 
 3.6 Registrar 23 
 3.7 Director of the Constituent Institute 29 
 3.8 Chief Finance and Accounts Officer 32 
 3.9 Joint Registrar 34

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
 3.10 CoE 35 
 3.11 Head of Department (HoD) 36 
 3.12 Faculty Members 40 
 3.13 Administrative Coordinator (AC) 44 
 3.14 Assistant Registrar 45 
 3.15 Manager (HR) /Asst. Manager (HR) 45 
 3.16 Estate Manager 47 
 3.17 Lab. Assistant / Lab. Instructor / Lab. In-charge  48 
 3.18 Hostel Warden 50 
4  Leave Rules  52 
 4.1 General Rules & Regulations 52 
 4.2 Grant of Leave  53 
 4.3 Leave Admissible to Staff Members During 
Probation 
53 
 4.4 Leave Admissible to Permanent Staff Members  54 
 4.5 Leave Management System 66 
5  TA & DA Policy  67 
 5.1 Travel Arrangement & Advance Procedure 67 
 5.2 Names of Cities Covered under Different 
Categories  
67 
 5.3 Tour Reports 70 
 5.4 Travel Expenses Claim & Settlement  70 
6  Recruitment 71

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
 6.1 Various Categories of Staff  71 
 6.2 Recruitment of Teaching Staff 72 
 6.3 Norms of Recruitment of Teaching, Non-Teaching, 
Admin and Admin Support Staff 
73 
 6.4 Recruitment Procedure  81 
7  Promotion 85 
 7.1 For Teaching Staff 85 
 7.2 For Non-Teaching Staff 85 
8  Resignation/Termination 87 
9  Exit Interview 88 
10  Retirement 88 
11  Provident Fund 89 
12  Gratuity 89 
13  Benefits 89 
 13.1 Salary 89 
 13.2 Disbursement of Salary 89 
 13.3 Employees Group Insurance Scheme 89 
 13.4 Salary Advance 90 
 13.5 Transport Facility 90 
 13.6 Canteen Facility 90 
 13.7 Medical Facilities 90 
 13.8 Other Facilities 90 
  APPENDIX

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
A  Performa for Calculating Academic Performance 
Indicator (API) for the Post of Associate Professor 
& Professors under Direct Recruitment 
91 
B  Interview Matrix For Faculty Position Based on 
Marks 
95 
C  Overall Assessment of Suitability for Faculty 
Position 
96 
D  Final Interview Matrix for Faculty Position 97 
E  Annual Performance Appraisal Report (APAR) 
Process 
98 
F  Academic Performance Indicators (API) for Career 
Advancement Scheme (CAS) Promotions for 
Assistant Professor, Associate Professors & 
Professors and for Direct Recruitment of Assistant 
Professor, Associate Professor & Professors in 
Universities and Colleges 
109 
G  Annual Self-Appraisal Form for Faculty Members 118 
 H  Annual Self-Appraisal Form for Lab. Staff 132 
I  Annual Self-Appraisal Form for Administrative Staff 142 
J  Exit Feedback 152 
  ANNEXURE  
  Channel of Reporting 155

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
 
FOREWORD 
 
This manual summarizes all major human resources policies and procedures that are 
currently in force in Indus University and its constituent Institutes. Any terms and 
conditions of employment covered, in part or in whole, in this manual , are subject to 
the provisions of regulations of Indus University in force.  
 
The provisions contained in this manual are subject to change from time to time , as 
required.  Pay and benefits offered are fair and competitive. Our employees are always 
encouraged to well-equip themselves for the pr esent job and future growth  of Indus 
University. Reward is based on merit and high performers are given priority to take up 
more resp onsible p ositions. Two-way communication between employees and the 
management is promoted as a means of building mutual understanding and trust. 
Equal opportunity to all deserving employees is reflected in our HR Policy. The 
employees’ freedom of speech is  respected as long as they are within the legal 
boundaries and Code of Conduct of the University.      
 
It is hoped that the manual  would help to serve as a reference guide to full -time 
regular/contractual employees, etc. on the human resource policies and  procedures 
of the University. 
 
 
 
Sd/-       
(Dr. Sandeep Chakravorty) 
Executive President 
February 22, 2022

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
 
1. Introduction 
India is emerging as a hub of engineering as well as R & D activities. It has become a dire 
necessity to invest in high quality training of engineering manpower to seize the emerging 
opportunities required for overall development of the country. Educational standards can 
be improved and augmented by imparting higher technical and professional education . 
The higher technical education system in India is the largest in the world. For such a large 
system, given the huge young population, a handful of Government institutions and a few 
private universities alone cannot provide opportunities to talented young students. There 
is a need for additional centers of excellence to address the shortfall of avenues to obtain 
professional qualifications. Private universities which are in large numbers fill in this gap 
to a large extent. 
 
Keeping the above in mind, Indus University has set its defining statement to cater to the 
ever increasing demand of professional manpower in the fields of engineering, 
architecture, management, information technology and computer applications, etc. 
 
1.1. University Statements 
1.1.1. Vision Statement 
To be a Nationally Acclaimed University amongst the best universities of our country 
for academic excellence, professional relevance, research and innovation in socially 
relevant thrust areas seamlessly integrating Indian values and global ethos, satisfying 
all its stake holders. 
1.1.2. Mission Statement 
To offer quality technical and management education to the members of its learners’ 
community in the best traditions of creative and innovating teaching-learning process, 
encompassing the philosophy “Where Practice Meets Theory”  by ensuring state-
of-art infrastructure and attracting competent and qualified human resources who will 
engage in research and development activiti es aimed at building a brand of the 
university.  
1.1.3. Quality Policy 
Continuous upgradation of course curriculum and regular academic auditing 
processes and procedures aimed at meeting the dynamically knowledgeable and 
skilled human resource requirements in diverse professional environments.

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
 
2. Service Rules of Indus University 
2.1. Definitions 
The following will be the definitions of terms in this manual: 
2.1.1. "INDUS" means Indus University. 
2.1.2. “UGC” means University Grants Commission. 
2.1.3. “AICTE” means All India Council for Technical Education. 
2.1.4. “CoA” means Council of Architecture. 
2.1.5. “Sponsors” means the sponsor of the university i.e. Bhandari Charitable Trust. 
2.1.6. “BoG” means “Board of Governance ”, the Governing Body constituted under the 
provisions of Section 3 of the Gujarat Private University Act 20 09 declared by 
Gujarat Act No. 12 of 2012 under Serial No. 9. 
2.1.7. “BoM” means "Board of Management", the management body constituted under the 
provisions of Section 3 of the Gujarat Private University Act 2 009 declared by 
Gujarat Act No. 12 of 2012 under Serial No. 9. 
2.1.8. “President” means the President of the University nominated by the Sponsor. 
2.1.9. “Associate President” means the Associate President of the University nominated 
by the Sponsor. 
2.1.10. “Executive President” / “Provost” equivalent to Vice Chancellor means Executive 
President/Provost of the University.  
2.1.11. “Executive Vice President”  / “Associate Provost” is equivalent to Pro -Vice 
Chancellor. He is the a uthority next to the Executive President and above the 
Directors of the Institutes, Deans and Registrar. 
2.1.12. "Employee" shall mean any person employed by INDUS  University. Employees 
shall be categorized as under: 
2.1.12.1. "Regular employee" means  a teaching or non-teaching person appointed in the 
prescribed scale or on non-scale pay, either on probation or on confirmed basis. 
2.1.12.2. "Permanent employee" means a teaching or non -teaching p erson, who has 
completed probation period and is confirmed.  
2.1.12.3. "Contractual/Temporary/Adhoc Employee" shall mean a t eaching or non-teaching 
person appointed on a fixed tenure basis, either in the scale or otherwise. 
2.1.13. "Faculty" means a member of faculty of INDUS University. 
2.1.14. “Visiting Faculty” means an eminent scholar from outside the university in his field 
who achieved distinction. 
2.1.15. “Adjunct Faculty” means a part-time or contingent instructor hired by the institute to 
teach but is not a full-time member of faculty. 
2.1.16. "Director/Principal " means head of a constituent institute appointed by INDUS  
University.

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
 
2.1.17. "Salary" means the basic pay and other emoluments prescribed by the university 
from time to time , in general / conformation with the recommendations of 
UGC/AICTE/COA/ Government of Gujarat  or any other regulatory body , as 
affordable / applicable. 
 
2.2. Preamble 
In order to rea lize the vision and mission of the university, it becomes imperative to 
formulate appropriate rules and regulations for the conduct of the human resources 
issues of the university. 
2.2.1. The rules are framed as prescribed by UGC/AICTE/COA/ Government of Gujarat or 
any other regulatory body as applicable and will be modified from time to time as may 
be affordable / required. These service rules shall be applicable to all em ployees of 
the University. 
2.2.2. Adhering to all the policies , rules, regulations, procedures, provisions and systems 
framed by Indus University from time to time is expected from all its employees. 
2.2.3. This Policy will be called the Indus University Human Resource Policy 2018 and 
shall come into force with effect from the date of issue of notification. 
2.2.4. Unless otherwise specifically provided, these rules shall apply to all the employees of 
Indus University. It will include the regular , adhoc and temporary  employees of the 
University as well as the employees appointed on contract basis. This will also include 
teaching, non -teaching, technical and a dministrative employees of the Indus 
University. These rules will also be applicable to adjunct/visiting faculty, as relevant. 
2.2.5. This manual supersedes all other existing HR policies/rules/regulations/instructions, 
etc. 
2.2.6. In case of any issue covered in the manual requiring interpretation, the decision of the 
management will be final and binding on all staff.  
2.2.7. In the manual, the text in its entirety is meant to be inclusive in terms of gender. Hence, 
wherever the words “he/his etc.” are used in relation to male staff, they equally apply 
to female staff as “she/her etc.” respectively in a given context. 
2.2.8. This manual will be revised periodically as and when required. However, it wil l be 
reviewed minimum once a year.  
 
2.3. Code of Conduct for Teaching and Non-Teaching Staff 
Indus University aims at offering high quality education and research opportunities 
by introducing creative and innovative teaching-learning process es. This can be 
achieved if we jointly inculcate the culture of hard work, dedication, transparency and 
sincerity. The following Code of C onduct has been formulated to meet these

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 
 
objectives. A Code of Conduct for students has been incorporated in the Students’ 
Manual. 
2.3.1. Working Days and Timings 
2.3.1.1. The University functions from Monday to Saturday. Presently, the first and third 
Saturdays are non-working days which may be altered as per any future 
requirement. The timings for faculty members including non-teaching technical staff 
are from 8.20 AM to 4. 20 PM, whereas, timings of non -teaching and admin. staff 
are from 8.20 to 5.00 PM.  
2.3.1.2. A staff member shall not leave the work place earlier tha n the prescribed working 
hours unless specifically permitted by a competent authority. 
2.3.1.3. Coming early to work does not permit the employees to go early. Similarly, g oing 
late on a day does not permit the employees to come late on the next or any other 
day. Adherence to the existing attendance system is expected from all employees. 
All are requested to mark their attendance in  the Bio-metric Attendance Device , 
Department Attendance Register and Special Attendance Register as applicable / 
required.  
2.3.1.4. The holidays for impor tant festivals & national holidays etc. will be notified in 
advance by the Registrar. Only such of those days notified shall be availed by the 
Staff.  
2.3.2. Maintenance of Attendance Register 
All the teaching faculty as well as non -teaching staff member s should enter their 
thumb impression at the time of arrival and departure on all working days of the  
University along with signing in the respective attendance registers on all working 
days. Not signing the attendance register or not giving biometric thumb impression 
while leaving the campus shall be treated as an absence. 
2.3.2.1. Regulations for Late Attendance 
2.3.2.1.1. If any faculty member reports after 8.20 AM or leaves before 4.20 PM on 
a working day more than three times  during the semester, one-day CL 
will be debited to his account. In case of non-availability of Casual Leave 
(CL), one day Earned Leave (EL) will be debited to his account. In the 
absence of any CL or EL, one day of LWP will be deducted against his 
absence. A separate set of timings will be followed for the faculty working 
in the second shift, as and when introduced. However, similar duration 
will be maintained for them.  
 
 
2.3.2.1.2. If any staff from Administrative Departments/non-teaching staff of all the 
constituent institutes of Indus University reports after 8.20 AM or leaves 
before 5. 00 PM on a working day more than three times during the

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 
 
semester, one -day CL will be debited to his account. In case of non -
availability of Casual Leave (CL), one day Earned Leave (EL) will be 
debited to his account. In the absence of any CL or EL, one day of LWP 
will be deducted against his absence. A separate set of timings will be 
followed for the staff working in the second shift, as and when introduced. 
However, similar duration will be maintained for them. 
2.3.3. Office Etiquettes 
2.3.3.1. Dress Code: All employees have to adhere to the dress code assigned for different 
categories. One should wear only appropriate dresses which display  moderation, 
respect   and dignity among the students’ community and colleagues. Dressing in 
a provocative or unkempt manner is unprofessional as it dilutes the work culture 
and leads to unnecessary distractions. One is therefore expected to refrain from    
wearing such dresses. It is also expected that   all the male     teaching and non-
teaching staff wear shoes at all times while on duty. In case of female teaching and 
non-teaching staff, it is expected that appropriate and respectable footwear will be 
worn. All needs to wear pro per decent dress and shall not wear any dress which 
propagate the religious sentiments and puts identification of the person at difficulty 
at stake. The decision of university official on the same will be final and binding to 
all concerned. 
 
2.3.3.2. Language Code: Dignified language must be used while in the campus. All are 
expected to maintain dignity while talking to the student community, seniors, 
subordinates and colleagues. With a view to encourage ou r students to 
communicate in English, it is expected that the communication between the faculty, 
staff and students takes place in English only. 
2.3.3.3. Phone Calls: One should refrain from using office phone for making personal calls 
as it is considered as unprofessional. Talking loudly on phone in others’ presence 
is also considered unbecoming. One should avoid having a distracting ring tone 
which disrupts the concentration of colleagues and hinders work performance.    All 
employees must join hands to prevent students from using mobile phones in the 
instructional buildings, classrooms, laboratories and examination halls. 
2.3.4. Interpersonal Communication  
All employees shall use polite and decent language during their presence in the 
campus and while communicating with each other. Use of abusive language in the 
campus will be considered as a violation of the Code of Conduct.  
2.3.4.1. It is mandatory that all Indus University employees use their emails for all official 
communications. All work related to communications, information sharing, work

--- PAGE 12 ---
12 
 
orders, works done, performance matters, meetings, minutes, requests, replies, etc. 
at Indus University should be done using the University email address only.  
It prevents wastage of human work hours and helps to improve the working 
environment. Moreover, it creates an official record of all actions and monitors the 
performance of every employee. Further, it assists to showcase the accountability 
of every employee at Indus University. 
2.3.4.2. Employees are responsible to check their emails frequently every day. 
2.3.4.3. Employees should take prior appointment to meet their superiors, if the nature of 
issue is not urgent. 
2.3.4.4. Employees    are    not    allowed   to walk-in or    telephone     for routine   meetings   
or discussions   with   senior level   leadership /    administrative faculty and staff 
such   as    President, Associate President, Executive President (Vice Chancellor), 
Deans, Directors, and Registrar. Employees need to have an appointment to meet 
or call these officials for routine issues. 
 
2.3.4.5. For emergency and life threatening issues or situations, employees can walk -in or 
telephone any office r/s without any appointment  to deal with such issues or 
situations without any further delay. 
 
2.3.5. Confidentiality 
2.3.5.1. Upon accepting employment with Indus University, one will be required not to 
disclose or use any Indus University confidential information, either during or after 
the employment. It is expected that our relationship will be long-term and mutually 
rewarding. However, an employment with Indus University assumes an obligation 
to maintain confidentiality on the part of the employee  even after one leaves the 
university. 
2.3.5.2. Additionally, our students, parents, employees and clients entrust Indus University 
with important information relating to their businesses. The nature of this 
relationship requires maintenance of confidentiality. In safeguarding the information 
received, Indus University earns the respect and trust of all its stakeholders 
2.3.5.3. No one is permitted to remove or make copies of any University’s records, policies, 
rules and regulations, reports or documents without prior management approval. 
Disclosure of confidenti al information could lead to termination, as well as other 
possible legal action. 
2.3.5.4. If any employee violates the provisions of Indus University IT policy  or any other 
policy, it may lead to termination of the service of the employee as well as legal 
action.

--- PAGE 13 ---
13 
 
2.3.6. Protecting the Intellectual Property Rights 
Intellectual property plays an important role in providing a competitive edge to a 
university.   The intangible assets of an university - such as know-how, inventions, 
brands, designs and other creative and innovative products - are, today, often more 
valuable than its physical assets.  Keeping this in mind, an Intellectual Property 
Rights Policy Document has been  prepared separately which seeks to     provide 
guidance to academic and non -academic staff, students, scholars, and outside 
agencies on the practices and the rules of the University regarding    Intellectual   
Property Rights   (IPR)  and    obligations. These include the nature of Intellectual 
Property (IP), its ownership, exploitation, technology transfer and confidentiality 
requirements. The policy laid down in the document is expected to fulfil the 
commitment of the university to promote academic freedom and provide a 
conducive environment for research and development. Any violation of this policy 
may lead to termination of the service of the employee as well as legal action. 
2.3.7. Personal Obligations   
2.3.7.1. No employee shall undertake private tuition or any other assignment in any other  
institution, University, Government Department, NGO, etc. without permission from 
the Competent Authority in writing. 
2.3.7.2. No staff is permitted to inflict corporal punishment to students.  
2.3.7.3. Employees should not propagate through their teaching lessons or otherwise, 
communal or sectarian outlook or incite or allow any student(s) to indulge in 
communal or sectarian activities.  
2.3.7.4. Employees should not discriminate against any student on the grounds of caste, 
creed, language, religion, place of origin, gender or social and cultural back ground. 
Employees should not practice or incite any student to practice casteism, 
communalism or untouchability. 
2.3.7.5. Employees should not indulge in or encourage any form of malpractices connected 
with examinations or other activities  of the University, nor be responsible for 
sustained neglect in correcting class work or home-work or examination work done 
by the students. 
2.3.7.6. Employees should not engage themselves as selling agents or canvassers for any 
publishing firm or traders/vendors.  
2.3.7.7. Employees should not enter into any monetary transactions with any students or 
parents, nor shall employees exploit their  influence for personal matters in such a 
manner that employees need to incur a debt beyond their means to repay. 
2.3.7.8. Employees should not accept or permit any members of their families or any other 
persons acting on their behalf to accept any gift from any students, pare nts of

--- PAGE 14 ---
14 
 
students with whom they  come into contact by virtue of their  position in the 
University.  
2.3.7.9. A lot of employees think that it is acceptable to run to the bank or to store and finish 
personal erran ds quickly and get back to work.  These are very unethical and 
unprofessional practices. Similarly, using university’s infrastructure such as 
computer, car, etc. for personal work is also an unethical practice.   
2.3.7.10. Employees should not behave or encourage or incite any student(s) or other 
employees to behave as a rowdy or in a disorderly manner in the University 
premises. All employees shall abide by the policies, ru les and regulations of the 
Indus University and show due resp ect to the Constituted Authorities . Employees 
shall obey all directions issued by the University and higher authorities.  
2.3.7.11. Employees should be punctual in their attendance and for any official fun ctions / 
extra-curricular activities where presence has been ordered for by the competent 
authority. 
2.3.7.12. It is an obligatory on the part of the employees to carry out all the duties ass igned 
by the competent authority. 
2.3.7.13. Taking a very short break for few minutes  from one’s busy schedule is acceptable 
at the workplace. But, spending long hours away from the workplace, chatting up 
with the colleagues or roaming around in office areas or campus is strictly 
unacceptable. Gossiping about colleagues , senior faculty and  staff, leaders, 
management, other employees or students and creating or spreading rumors, etc. 
are unprofessional behavioral patterns that can vitiate the work atmosphere. 
Indulging by the individual or involving others in personal activities and gossiping  
during the office hours are not encouraged. 
2.3.7.14. Employees should not waste their precious work time and they are required to sit in 
their designated space in their office.    
2.3.7.15.  It is also expected that all employees save the energy and power by inculcating a 
habit of switching off the lights, fans and other electrical gadgets upon leaving their 
rooms. 
2.3.7.16. All are expected to give due respect to the ir seniors. The instructions being given 
by the seniors from time  to time are required to be adhered to and followed by all 
the concerned employees.  
2.3.7.17.  All employees should work towards  the common goal of making the Indus 
University, a progressive and holistic place to work, with the aim of imparting quality 
education, applied research and innovation and skill development, thereby making 
Indus University a “Centre of Excellence” in its true sense.  
2.3.7.18. No employee should remain absent without prior sanction of leave / sanction for 
other duties outside the University, except in emergencies or exceptional

--- PAGE 15 ---
15 
 
circumstances. In such cases, the employee should apply for leave / permission of 
absence within two days of re-joining duty. In case the employee is absent without 
leave / intimation for more than seven (7) working days, it will be assumed that the 
individual is absconding and the authorities will initiate disciplinary proceedings, 
which may lead to dismissal of the individual from the University.     
2.3.7.19. Indus University Campus is  “Alcohol, Drugs, Smoking and Tobacco -Free Zone”. 
Consuming alcohol, drugs, chewing tobacco or its products or any other intoxicating 
substance and smoking in the campus is strictly prohibited. All employees, students 
and visitors should adhere to this. Spitting in the dustbin or anywhere else in the 
campus, except in wash basin, is prohibited. 
2.3.8. Falsifying Information 
2.3.8.1. Producing wrong bills for reimbursement, stealing copyright material of the 
university including software, books, etc., giving wrong projection to the senior 
faculty and staff to get immediate rise, and giving excuses to the senior faculty and 
staff for the uncompleted work or not meeting the deadlines, etc. must be avoided.  
2.3.8.2. Duplicating software for use at home, manipulating the number of hours worked or 
much more serious and illegal practices, such as embezzling money from the 
organization or misusing information from confidential business documents, etc. are 
serious unethical practices. Some of these practices can lead the university to lose 
large amounts of money or resulting in loss. Any employee found guilty, is liable for 
disciplinary action , legal action and termination of service as considered 
appropriate. In addition, penal deductio n to recover the loss in full or part, if any, 
may be imposed. 
2.3.9. Sexual Harassment  
According to the judgement of Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, “Code of Conduct 
at Work Place” prepared by the National Commission for Women in 1998, sexual 
harassment includes such unwelcome sexually determined behavior by any person 
either individually or in association with other persons or by any person in authority, 
whether directly or by implications, such as the following: 
2.3.10. Physical contact and advances.  
2.3.11. A demand or request for sexual favours.  
2.3.12. Any other unwelcome, physical, verbal or non-verbal conduct of sexual nature.  
2.3.13. Eve Teasing.  
2.3.14. Jokes causing or likely to cause awkwardness or embarrassment.  
2.3.15. Gender-based insults or sexist remarks.  
2.3.16. Forcible physical touch or molestation.  
2.3.16.1. Physical confinement against one’s will and any other act likely to violate one’s 
privacy.

--- PAGE 16 ---
16 
 
2.3.17. Seeking Outside Employment 
Any staff of the university/constituent institutes will not seek outside employment/ 
appear for interviews for any openings/employment in any external 
organization/institution, either governmental , autonomous, public sector  or 
private, without obtaining a No-Objection Certificate (NoC) from the HR 
Department of the University. Violation of this rule will be construed as a violation 
of the Code of Conduct  by the employee/staff member.  For more details, a 
reference may be made to Para 8.5. 
2.3.18. Disciplinary Proceedings 
If any University employee is found violating the Code of Conduct, the following 
procedure will be followed for initiating disciplinary action against him: 
2.3.18.1. The concerned employee will be informed in writing by the Competent Authority 
in regard to the allegations on which disciplinary action is proposed to be taken 
and is given an opportunity to make a representation that he or she may wish to 
make it in person orally or in writing.  
2.3.18.2. Such representations, if any, are  taken into consideration by the competent 
authority to impose penalty or take any other disciplinary action. 
2.3.19. Disciplinary Punishments  
2.3.19.1. These rules shall apply to all employees of the University.  
2.3.19.2. Penalties not restricted to the following may, for sufficient reason , be imposed 
upon the employees of the University: 
2.3.19.2.1. Censure. 
2.3.19.2.2. Fine. 
2.3.19.2.3. Withholding of increments / promotions. 
2.3.19.2.4. Reverting to a lower grade or a lower post in the time scale. 
2.3.19.2.5. Recovery of the whole or part of any pecuniary loss caused to the University by 
negligence or breach of orders. 
2.3.19.2.6. Suspension. 
2.3.19.2.7. Compulsory retirement. 
2.3.19.2.8. Removal from the service. 
2.3.19.2.9. Termination / Dismissal from the service. 
2.3.19.3.  Various authorities empowered to impose punishments in respect of teaching 
staff, non -teaching staff, administrative  officers, other administrative  staff and 
administrative support staff will be as given in the Table-I below:   
Table I: Authorities Empowered to Impose Punishments 
Sr. 
No 
Punishments Authority who imposes Punishment

--- PAGE 17 ---
17 
 
  Teaching  
Staff 
Non-
Teaching 
Staff 
Administra-
tive 
Officers 
Other 
Administra-
tive Staff 
Administra-
tive Support 
Staff 
1. Censure HoD HoD HoO/ 
Registrar  
HoO HoO 
2. Fine Director Director Executive 
President 
Registrar Registrar 
3. Withholding Increment Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
4. Withholding Promotion Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
5. Reverting to a Lower 
Grade or to a Lower Post 
Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
6. Recovery of the whole or 
in part of any Pecuniary 
Loss Caused to the 
University by Negligence 
or Breach of Orders 
Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
7. Suspension Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
8. Compulsory Retirement Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
9. Removal from the Service Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
10. Termination / Dismissal 
from the Service 
Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
Executive 
President 
 
2.3.19.4. Whenever it i s proposed to impose any of the penalties specified above on an y 
employee, he or she would be given an opportunity to make his representation and 
the representation shall be taken into consideration before imposing any penalty by 
an office order issued by Executive President (Vice Chancellor)  / authorities 
competent to take dis ciplinary action, as mentioned above . A show-cause notice 
may be issued before any penalty is imposed. 
2.3.19.5. No employee of the University shall be dismissed or removed or compulsorily asked 
to retire before the age of retirement on disciplinary ground except after an enquiry 
in which he has been informed of the charges against him and they are given a 
reasonable opportunity of being heard in respect of these charges . W here it is 
proposed after such an enquiry to impose on him any such penalty, he will be given 
a reasonable opportunity of making a representation on the penalty proposed, but 
only on the basis of the evidence produced during the inquiry. 
2.3.19.6. The inquiry under this sub rule shall be made by the Disciplinary Committe e 
constituted for the purpose. 
2.3.19.7. Every employee of the University shall be entitled to appeal once with respect to an 
order imposing on him any of the penalties specified by the Disciplinary Authority. 
In case of appeal, the decision of the Appellate Authority shall be final.

--- PAGE 18 ---
18 
 
2.3.19.8. Disciplinary action and punishment relating to examination related issues will be 
based upon separate instructions on the subject. 
2.3.20. Grievance Redressal 
A Staff Welfare and Grievance Committee has been constituted to address the 
grievance of staff members, as and if applicable. Separate orders have been issued 
for the same. The main objective of this committee is to ensure  earliest possible 
redressal of grievance, thereby promoting healthy relationships at all levels in the 
University.  
3. Authorities of the University and Subordinate Staff 
3.1. President 
3.1.1. The Chairperson of the Sponsoring Body or his nominee shall be the first President.  
3.1.2. The President shall be nominated by the Sponsoring Bo dy. There is no age bar for 
the President. 
3.1.3. The President will preside over at all convocations of the University. 
3.1.4. The office of the President may be located anywhere in India or overseas. 
3.1.5. The President will be the Chairman of the Board of Governance, Board of 
Management and Board of Finance and Accounts of the University. 
3.1.6. The President shall have such powers conferred on him by the Act or the Statutes 
made thereunder, which shall include and not limited to the following powers, 
namely: 
3.1.6.1. To function as the Head of the University. 
3.1.6.2. He will be the highest academic and executive authority of the University. 
3.1.6.3. To create positions in the university, as required with the consent of the sponsor.  
3.1.6.4. To call for any information and records. 
3.1.6.5. To diversify and  enhance the streams of  academic programs and constituent 
institutions with the consent of the sponsor.  
3.1.6.6. To approve, appoint or re -appoint or terminate the appointment of the Provost 
(Executive President) and Associate Provost (Executive Vice President), in 
accordance with the provisions of the Act and the Statutes or opinion of the Board of 
Governance. 
3.1.6.7. To approve the appointment of the Chief Finance & Accounts Officer.  
3.1.6.8. To approve the Agenda of  the Board of Governance , Board of Management and 
Board of Finance & Accounts  in the manner provided for in the Act and to decide 
about tabled agenda, if deemed to be necessary, at the time of the meeting. 
3.1.6.9. To resolve any conflict (including conflicts at a meeting of the Board of Governance) 
in the manner provided for in this Act. In the event of a conflict inter-se between the 
functionary or functionaries or body or bodies and any other functionary or body of

--- PAGE 19 ---
19 
 
the University, the issue shall be referred to the President and the decision of the 
President in respect of such issue shall be final and binding on the University. 
 
3.2.    Associate President  
3.2.1. The Chairperson of the Sponsoring Body or its nominee shall be the first Associate 
President. 
3.2.2. The Associate President shall be nominated by the Sponsoring Bo dy. No age bar 
shall be considered while nominating the Associate President. 
3.2.3. The tenure of the Associate President will be decided by the Sponsoring Body in the 
appointment letter. 
3.2.4. The Associate President will perform all functions and hold all the powers of the 
President (as described in the Statutes) in the absence of the President. 
3.2.5. The Associate President will be Alternate Chairman of the Board of Governance , 
Board of Management and Board of Finance and Accounts. 
3.3.  Executive President  
3.3.1. The Executive President is the Executive Head and Principal Academic Officer of the 
University. 
3.3.2. The position of Executive President requires vision, high quality leadership, management, 
proactive planning, active and reactive planning, organizational skills, administration, 
communication, interaction, faculty/staff and student development, mentoring, monitoring, 
and motivational skills in relation to teaching, research and innovation and all other curricular 
and extra -curricular activities of Indus University.  In order to create a congenial and 
professional environment leading to high quality of teaching and learning, research and 
innovation, the performance and achievements of the Executive President in assigned areas 
/ roles / responsibilities will be reviewed at least once in a year by the Standing Committee. 
3.3.3. The Executive President has to play the most significant role as the leader of the university 
both in the executive and academic wings. He functions as a "bridge" between the executive 
and the academic wings of the university and he, being the head of both these wings, he is 
both a "Teacher” and an "Administrator".  
3.3.4. He shall exercise general supervision and control over the affairs of the university and give 
effect to the decision of all its authorities.  
3.3.5. In the absence of the Presid ent, the Associate President or the Executive President may 
preside over the convocation of the university in that order for conferring degrees. 
3.3.6. The Executive President being the Principal Executive and Academic Head of the University, 
has the following powers and duties: 
3.3.6.1. He shall ensure that the provisions of the Act, Statutes, Ordinances and Regulations are 
fully observed.

--- PAGE 20 ---
20 
 
3.3.6.2. He will serve as Chairman of the Academic Council  and the Board of Examination and 
Results (BOER). He can also be nominated as Chairman of other committees as per the 
directions of the  Board of Governance, Board of Management, Standing Committee and 
Board of Finance and Accounts. 
3.3.6.3. The Executive President shall exercise general supervision and control over the affairs of 
the University and shall give effect to the decisions of the various authorities of the University 
and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as may be prescribed by the Act, 
the Statutes or the Ordinances. 
3.3.6.4. If in the opinion of the Executive President, it is necessary to take immediate action on any 
matter for which powers are conferred on any other authority by or under this Act, he may 
take such action as he, deem s necessary and shall at the earliest opportunity thereafter 
report his action to such faculty and staff or authority as would have, in the ordinary course, 
dealt with the matter.  
3.3.6.5. Provided that if in the opinion of the concerned authority such action should not have been 
taken by the Executive President, then such case shall be referred to the President, whose 
decision there on shall be final.  
3.3.6.6. He can delegate his powers for day-to-day work to the Registrar, Directors, Deans, Heads 
of the Departments and any other faculty and staff who should act on the basis of clear rules 
laid down in this regard. 
3.3.6.7. He shall exercise his powers, not to act upon any decision of any authority, if he is of the 
opinion that it is ultravires of the provisions of the Act or Statues or Ordinances or that such 
a decision is not in the best interests of the University. In such cases, he can ask the 
authority concerned to review the decision.  
3.3.6.8. If in the opinion of the Executive President, any decision of any authority of the University is 
outside the powers conferred by this Act, Statutes or is likely to be prejudicial to the interest 
of the University, he shall instruct the concerned authority to revise its decision within 
reasonable time from the date of his decision and in case the authority refuses to revise 
such decision wholly or partly or fails to take any decision within reasonable time, then such 
matter shall be referred to the President and his decision thereon shall be final and binding.  
3.3.6.9. As the Chairman of the authorities, bodies and committees of the University, he is 
empowered to suspend a member from the meeting of the authority, body or committee for 
persisting to obstruct or stall the proceedings or for indulging in behaviour unbecoming of a 
member.  
3.3.6.10.  All the disciplinary powers with regard to students and employees shall vest with the 
HoO/Registrar/Executive President as applicable. He shall have the powers to suspend an 
employee and initiate disciplinary action against them . However, he can delegate these 
powers to other faculty and staff.

--- PAGE 21 ---
21 
 
3.3.6.11. The Executive President shall be responsible for holding and conducting the university 
examinations properly at the scheduled time and for ensuring that res ults of such 
examinations are published expeditiously and that  the academic session of the university 
commences and ends on proper dates. 
3.3.6.12.  In an emergent situation, he is empowered to take any action on behalf of any authority in 
which the power is vested and to report the action taken in the next meeting of the authority.  
3.3.6.13. He shall allocate responsibilities and audit the performance of faculty and staff , faculty 
members, staff and students against the expected standards.  
3.3.6.14. The Degrees shall be signed by the Executive President. 
3.3.6.15. As an Executive President, he shall manage the people (including students and academic 
staff) in a manner whereby there is a positive impact on society at large and the actions are 
in accordance with the overall plans of development.  
3.3.6.16. He shall pass such orders and take such measures that are necessary to implement any of 
the above. 
 
3.4. Dean Academics 
The Dean Academics will provide effective leadership to the academic process of the 
university.    It is an important position in the continuum as the facilitating link among 
Departments/Directors, faculty members, staff, students, and University leadership for 
ensuring the academic growth of the institution. He is the academic leader of the 
university. It is his duty to see that his responsibilities specified in the Act, the Statutes, 
the Ordinances and the Regulations are duly observed. The incumbent shall be 
responsible for the following, amongst other responsibilities which may be delegated 
to him: 
3.4.1. Coordinating the development of and implementing the university’s Vision and 
Mission Statement for academic aspects.  
3.4.2. Leading, and coordinating the university’s strategic planning and curriculum 
development.  
3.4.3. Supervising, evaluating, and supporting Departments / Institutes in a manner that 
promotes excellence in instruction, scholarly and creative productivity.  
3.4.4. Coordinating the professional development of faculty and Departments.  
3.4.5. Evaluating Directors / HODs, faculty and staff.  
3.4.6. Reviewing and recommending the Institute’s / Departmental policies, procedures, and 
proposals for promotion, increments, retention, review of probation cases, and 
ensuring that all laid down policies are followed.  
3.4.7. Monitoring and evaluating overall Institute / Departmental productivity in instruction, 
research, and service responsibilities.

--- PAGE 22 ---
22 
 
3.4.8. Providing recommendations to the Executive President regarding sabbaticals and 
other leaves for faculty.  
3.4.9. Advising the Executive President on academic policies and procedures.  
3.4.10. He shall submit periodical progress reports of different academic activities, result 
analysis and other performance related reports to the Executive President. 
3.4.11. He shall be responsible for preparation of the annual expense and capital budget for 
academic aspects and all other needs of different departments, centers and 
constituent institutes of the university and submit to the Executive President.  
3.4.12. He shall deal with other such academic matters as required by the Academic Council. 
3.4.13. He will obtain the recommendations on the syllabus from the Board s of Studies and 
will submit his recommendations to the Academic Council on the same.  
3.4.14. He shall be a member of the Academic Council. 
 
3.5.  Dean Research 
Dean Research shall provide effective leadership towards research, publications, 
testing, continuing education, conferences, workshops, seminars and such other 
technical training and educational activities. It is his duty to see that his 
responsibilities specified in the Act, the Statutes, the Ordinances and the Regulations 
are duly observed. In addition, he shall ensure the following: 
3.5.1. He will formulate and implement the research policy and guidelines of the university. 
3.5.2. Create a nd manage an exhaustive database of various research sponsoring 
agencies, their schemes, thrust areas of research in different disciplines to enable 
faculty to approach them.  
3.5.3. Coordinate development of research resources including books, periodicals, relevant 
journals, digital resources, laboratory equipment, special centralized supports like 
precision measurements, fabrications, erection and commissioning of special 
equipment, review of journal articles, publication support, patenting support, etc. 
3.5.4.  Develop testing potential of various departments and centers in coordination with 
Dean Academics and other faculty and staff and authorities of the university. 
3.5.5.  Design and conduct in consultation and coordination with Dean Academics, 
education programs and curri culum enhancement for promoting research in the 
university.   
3.5.6. Identify potential research collaborations with industries and other organizations for 
collaborative research and to facilitate collaborative research projects from 
departments and centers of the university. 
3.5.7. Encourage, motivate and guide faculty to successfully submit research and other 
financial support project proposals to various national and international 
funding/sponsoring agencies.

--- PAGE 23 ---
23 
 
3.5.8. Encourage, motivate and guide faculty and students to publish papers in reputed 
international and national journals of good impact factor, publish books and such 
similar activities.  
3.5.9.  Dean Research shall be a member of the Academic Council.  
3.5.10. He shall be responsible for preparing and submitting the annual budget for research 
and other technical activities like conferences, seminars, workshops, technical 
competitions, etc. 
3.5.11. He shall submit a semester-wise progress report related to all the above activities to 
the Executive President, giving clear recommendations of actions required for 
continuous improvement of research and related activities in the university.  
 
3.6. Registrar  
The Registrar ensures the integrity, accuracy, and security of all academic records of 
current and former students; facilitates effective student registration and enrollment; 
builds secure student data files and sets policy and procedure for their responsi ble 
use; maintains up-to-date course schedules, final examination schedules; manages 
efficient use of classrooms and supervises and maintains the degree audit systems. 
The Registrar supervises the processes for the articulation of transfer of credits, 
certification of degrees, enrollment and degree verification, production of official 
transcripts, certificates, and convocation ceremonies. The Registrar counsels and 
advises students, faculty and staff  and interprets and enforces policies and 
regulations of t he University. The Registrar reports to the Executive President. His 
responsibilities will include, but not necessarily limited to, the following: 
3.6.1.   General 
3.6.1.1. He shall submit information, reports and documents to the Government and conduct 
liaison and make correspondence with the State Government, Central Government, 
University Grants Commission, All India Council for Technical Education and other 
Government and statutory authorities duly approved by reporting authorities. 
3.6.1.2. He shall prepare and update the Handbook of the Statutes, Ordinances and 
Regulations as required by various State and Central Govt. and regulatory 
authorities, viz. MHRD/UGC/AICTE/CoA/Technical Education Board, etc.  
3.6.1.3. He shall be responsible for due custody of records and the common seal of the 
University and such other property of the University as the Board of Governance or 
the Board of Management, shall commit to his charge. He shall be bound to place all 
such information and documents as may be necessary for transaction of business 
before the Executive President or any other authority as the case may be. 
3.6.1.4. The Registrar shall represent the University in legal issues or proceedings by or 
against the University, sign powers of attorney and plead in such cases.

--- PAGE 24 ---
24 
 
3.6.1.5. He shall establish the grievance handling mechanism.  
3.6.1.6. He shall attest the copies of the Certificates, Mark Sheets of the University students 
as well as other forms like Scholarship, Concession etc. except where the concerned 
authority requires the signature of Principal / Director of the Institute.  
3.6.1.7. He shall be responsible for planning, organization and conduct of all the activities 
related with convocation ceremonies; and be a central source of  information, help 
and services as they relate to these tasks and responsibilities.  
3.6.1.8. He will be the custodian of all the University documents and will keep the same in 
safe custody. 
3.6.1.9. He shall enter into agreements and contracts on behalf of the University a nd make 
amendments and alterations in terms of such agreements or contracts as may be 
directed by the authorities. 
3.6.1.10. He shall conduct the official correspondence on behalf of the authorities of the 
University. 
3.6.1.11. He shall sign documents and authenticate records on behalf of the University. 
3.6.2. Regulatory Bodies 
3.6.2.1. The Registrar shall make the Agenda and issue Notices of meetings of committees 
and sub-committees appointed by any of these authorities with the approval of the 
Executive President, as the case may be. 
3.6.2.2. The Registrar shall place the names of all candidates who have been examined and 
found qualified for the award of Certificate / Diploma / Degree to  be placed before 
the Academic Council. On being approved by the Academic Council, the Executive 
President shall advise the Registrar to announce the results. The Certificates / 
Diplomas / Degrees shall be issued to the respective candidates after the approval 
of Management at the convocation of the University, in  presentia or absentia as 
selected by the candidate. 
3.6.2.3. He shall keep the minutes of the meetings of all the committees and sub-committees 
appointed by any of the authorities and circulate the same among the members, with 
the approval of the Executive President, as the case may be. He will be responsible 
for taking any follow up action required thereafter. 
3.6.2.4. He shall obtain approvals for new courses duly approved by Board of Studies 
(BoS) and Academic Council from the concerned regulatory authorities.  
3.6.2.5. He shall ensure preparation of the University Annual Report under the direction 
of the Executive President.  
3.6.2.6. He will be the in-charge of the conduct of examinations and shall announce the 
results in accordance with the recommendations of Controller of Examin ations 
and Chairman, BOER; he shall refer any cases of dispute to the  Chairman,

--- PAGE 25 ---
25 
 
BOER. The decision of the Chairman, BOER; shall be final with respect to 
examination or re-examination. 
3.6.2.7. He shall submit the list of all the appointments made in the university and obtain 
the approval of the Management.  
3.6.2.8. He shall streamline  the performance evaluation, promotion and career 
advancement policies for all the employees, including faculties, of the university. 
3.6.2.9. He shall be Secretary of the Board of Governance, Board of Management, 
Academic Council and such other bodies as may be prescribed by the Statutes. 
3.6.2.10. He shall be responsible for framing of statute relating to creation of teaching and 
non- teaching posts. 
3.6.2.11. He shall provide inputs for framing of policies and procedures , to ensure that 
Government, UGC and other regulatory norms are followed. 
3.6.2.12. He shall perform such other duties as specified in the Statutes, Ordinances and 
Regulations as may be delegated to him by the President, Executive President, 
Board of Management & Board of Governance. 
3.6.3. HR Department 
3.6.3.1. He will be the appointing and disciplinary authority of the employees of the 
university other than the faculty members, non-vacation academic staff and faculty 
and staff of the rank holding posts equivalent thereto or below. 
3.6.3.2. He will look after service matters such as recruitments, appointments, promotions, 
retirements, disciplinary action, sanction of leave, awarding incentive pertaining to 
both teaching and non-teaching employees of the University. 
3.6.3.3. He will be responsible for implementation of revision of pay scales to the      non – 
teaching employees as per the relevant Government Orders issued by the 
Government from time to time and also for implementation of UGC Pay Scales to 
the teaching staff of the university.  
3.6.3.4. He will organize the release of advertisements for the recruitment of the faculty 
and staff members.  
3.6.3.5. He will coordinate with different constituent institutes and general administration 
to consolidate manpower requirement/workforce planning  for optimum utilization 
of resources for efficient and smooth functioning of the university. 
3.6.3.6. He will review and finalize service regulations of all employees.  
3.6.3.7. He shall maintain sanctioned scale register and gradation list of both teaching and 
non – teaching members.

--- PAGE 26 ---
26 
 
3.6.4. System Department 
3.6.4.1. He will scrutinize purchases and approval documents of IT infrastructure and services 
including vendor negotiations for approval. 
3.6.4.2. He will monitor ERP project implementation. 
3.6.4.3. He will monitor CCTV operations and permissions for access to many video footages. 
3.6.5. Admin Coordination 
3.6.5.1. He is responsible to supervise all the administrative functions of the University. He 
shall receive complaints and suggestions in regard to the improvement of 
administration and consider them for appropriate action. 
3.6.5.2. He will r eview and finalize office procedures for carrying out ef ficient general 
administration. 
3.6.6.    Controller of Examinations (COE) 
3.6.6.1. He shall look after all student-related matters from Admission to Award of Degrees 
and shall maintain results and mark sheets of the students of the University. He 
shall maintain all students and staff related records. 
3.6.6.2. He shall execute the planning, scheduling and extension of examinations as per 
rules and regulation in coordination with COE. This shall include, amongst others, 
the following: - 
3.6.6.2.1. Evaluation of answer sheets. 
3.6.6.2.2. Preparation of mark sheets.  
3.6.6.2.3. Declaration of results. 
3.6.6.2.4. Printing of mark sheets. 
3.6.6.2.5. Printing of provisional certificates. 
3.6.6.2.6. Printing of degree certificates. 
3.6.6.3. He will extend all support needed in planning, scheduling and execution of 
examinations as per rules and regulations to the Controller of Examinations.

--- PAGE 27 ---
27 
 
3.6.6.4. T & P Department 
3.6.6.5. Supervision and monitoring of placement and career facilitation of the students in 
conjunction with the Directors, HODs and the Training and Placement 
Department. 
3.6.7. Fees 
3.6.7.1. He will be responsible for the collection of fees and for sending reminders to students 
who default in the payment of fees. He will refer cases of delay in payment of fees and 
he may take appropriate decision on the late payment of fee, charge of additional fee 
for delayed payment or for disciplinary action to be taken against the student defaulting 
in the payment of fee on a case to case basis, following the broad guidelines stipulated 
by the Board of Finance and Accounts. 
3.6.7.2. He will be responsible for passing disput es relating to the payment of fee to Chief 
Finance & Accounts Officer (CFAO) to get the decision of Board of Finance and 
Accounts (BOFA). The decision of the BOFA shall be final as regards the disputes 
relating to the payment of fee. 
3.6.8.   Welfare 
3.6.8.1. The Registrar shall manage various welfare schemes, Women Development Cell and 
the anti-ragging mechanism. 
3.6.8.2. He will maintain the complete record of scholarships given to the students of the 
university. He shall process award of scholarships to eligible students through a single 
window operation and submit the completion / utilization certificates to the concerned 
authorities in a timely fashion. 
3.6.9. Admission 
3.6.9.1. The Registrar, as Chairman of the Admission Committee, shall oversee the 
admissions to various programs and submit a report of compliance with the 
procedures laid down by the Admissions Committee to  be placed before the Board 
of Management. 
3.6.9.2. He will liaise with media, other organizations and Govt. Departments. 
3.6.10. Stores Department 
3.6.10.1. He will monitor the i nventory control/management of infrastructure, stores and 
equipment and drawing up rules and regulations for the same.   
3.6.10.2. He will be responsible for the purchase of all stores and equipment in the university. 
He will also finalize and implement purchase procedures i ncluding vendor 
development.

--- PAGE 28 ---
28 
 
3.6.11. Estate Department 
3.6.11.1. He will look after the functions of estate department, hostels, canteen, and other 
contractors and vendors etc. operating in the campus. 
3.6.12. Students Affairs 
3.6.12.1. He will provide necessary guidance to Chairman, Students Affairs Committee (SAC) 
in planning, and conduct of various extra-curricular activities for the students through-
out the year, fully ensuring that maximum number of students are given an opportunity 
to take part in maximum activi ties so as to help  them develop  as all -round 
personalities.  
3.6.12.2. He will finalise the budgetary support for all the above activities related to students.
  
3.6.13. Others 
3.6.13.1. He will be responsible for  planning and implementation of development and training 
programmes for faculty & staff members.  
3.6.13.2. He will provide managerial and operational support to the- 
3.6.13.2.1. Office of the Indus Center for  Research, Innovation & Skill Development (ICRISD), 
including Indus Foundry Training & Research Centre (IFTARC), Indus Centre for 
Welding Technology ( ICWT), Dassault Indus Collaborative Learning & Innovation 
Programme ( DICLIP), etc. 
3.6.13.2.2. Indus Institute of Special Studies (IISS) including History of Indian Sciences & 
Technology (HIST), Indus Infinity Foundation and any additional institutes / centers as 
and when established.  
3.7. Director of the Constituent Institute 
The Director is a leadership position at Indus University. The Director contributes to 
the development and implementation of all the activities of the institute in alignment 
with the vision, mission and objectives of the University. The Director is responsible 
to guide, develop, implement, mentor, monitor, evaluate and report all activities of 
the institutes including teaching and learning, student and faculty progress and 
quality, research and innovation, skill dev elopment, administration, management, 
facilities, and resources. It is his duty to see that his responsibilities specified in the 
Act, the Statutes, the Ordinances and the Regulations are duly observed. In addition, 
he shall ensure the following: 
3.7.1. The Director will ensure that faculty members and staff working in the institute are 
apprised of governance of research and innovation and the associated procedures 
which include research ethics frame work, code of cond uct for research and 
innovation and guidelines and procedures for investigating and resolving allegations 
of misconduct in academic research and innovation.

--- PAGE 29 ---
29 
 
3.7.2. The Director will closely work with the Executive President, Deans, Registrar 
including other Directors, and other leadership and senior admini stration team 
members in formulating, developing, training, mentoring, implementing, monitoring, 
updating, evaluating and reporting policies, procedures, rules and regulations, and 
comprehensive systems for the advancement of Indus University in the above areas. 
3.7.3. In order to complete the responsibilities summarized above, the Director will need to 
carry out the following duties at respective institute s and departments in a timely 
manner with a high degree of professionalism, efficiency and effectiveness as p er 
the current policies, procedures, rules, and regulations of the University.  
3.7.3.1. Develop and maintain effective educational programs and promote the improvement 
of teaching and learning programs leading to placement of students in jobs. 
3.7.3.2. Lead and guide to make university as a Centre for Excellence for studies, research 
and innovation. 
3.7.3.3. Have up-to-date knowledge of the market scenario and its changing expectations.  
3.7.3.4. Guide and mo nitor the development and updation  of syllabus as per the industry 
requirements and current trends.  
3.7.3.5. Prepare the academic calendar two months before the beginning of the semester for 
approval by the concerned authorities through Dean (Academics). 
3.7.3.6. Ensure that BOS meetings are conducted timely. 
3.7.3.7. Coordinate with the Controller of Examinations (COE) to complete the examination 
process. 
3.7.3.8. Review the performance of all the HoDs and faculty members and submit his Self-
Appraisal Report annually in the APAR forms received from the HoDs to the 
Executive President.   
3.7.3.9. Evaluate the faculty members appropriately based on the API score under the APAR. 
3.7.3.10. Mentor and monitor Heads of the Departments (HODs). 
3.7.3.11. Guide and motivate HODs and faculty members to write research projects and grants 
applications, and to conduct sponsored research projects.  
3.7.3.12. Guide and motivate HODs, faculty members to write/publish books, journal papers 
and articles and participate in seminars and conferences. 
3.7.3.13. Get feedback from HOD s to evaluate faculty members based on the students’ 
feedback every semester and on each subject.  
3.7.3.14. Discuss up-gradation and recommend laboratory requirements initiated by HODs to 
the management.  
3.7.3.15. Follow university’s policies, procedures, rules  and regulations for maintaining 
uniformity in the University. 
3.7.3.16. Meet HODs and various c ommittees regularly with agenda;  maintain record of all 
meetings’ agenda, minutes, action items, follow -ups, outcomes, etc. , resolve all

--- PAGE 30 ---
30 
 
issues related to every employee or department of his institute without delay, with 
the assistance of appropriate officials as required. If there are any hurdles in  
resolving any issue, bring the issue to the attention of higher officials. 
3.7.3.17. Establish and guide research and innovation activities across the institute. 
3.7.3.18. Develop an expert research team in each department in targeted strategic areas with 
the assistance of HODs and mentor and guide them to conduct high quality research 
and innovation projects through external grant funding. 
3.7.3.19. Take proactive action to obtain consultancy and other projects.  
3.7.3.20. Establish a professional rapport with students, faculty and staff and display highest 
ethical and professional behavior and standards when working with students, 
parents, faculty and staff. 
3.7.3.21. Serve as a role model for students and faculty by demonstrating the importance and 
relevance of learning, accepting respons ibility and demonstrating prid e in the 
educational profession and motivate all faculty and staff to do the same.  
3.7.3.22. Submit timely all documents related to requirements and compliances of AICTE, 
CoA, UGC and other statutory authorities etc. to the Registrar/Executive President. 
3.7.3.23. Update all activities and requirements of the institute regularly to the Executive 
President, 
3.7.3.24. Attend all the meetings called by the Government /any regulatory body or the 
management in coordination with Executive President. 
3.7.3.25. Develop and m aintain interdisciplinary, inter -institute, and industry -institute 
interactions and collaborations. 
3.7.3.26. Work out the students training and placement program in coordination with the 
Training & Placement Department and take active part in their execution to ens ure 
its success by nominating a dedicated faculty as the Nodal Placement & Training 
Officer for the Institute.  
3.7.3.27. Assist in recruiting well qualified and experienced faculty members, and allot duties 
and workloads to them. 
3.7.3.28. Develop and implement professional development activities for faculty and staff. 
3.7.3.29. Maintain discipline in the respective institute among all students, faculty and staff. 
3.7.3.30. Meet student representatives, faculty members and staff regularly to understand 
their needs and boost their morale. 
3.7.3.31. Forward a request to the Chairman, Students Affairs Committee ( SAC) for 
implementation of extra-curricular activities of students. Chairman, SAC shall consult 
the Directors of respective institutes for developing student activities. 
3.7.3.32. Promote and market  the Institute and the University and its achievements  and 
opportunities to industry , Government departments, parents, current and future 
students and employees, etc.

--- PAGE 31 ---
31 
 
3.7.3.33. Develop, maintain, update and implement academic plan, business plan, 
infrastructure and facilities p lan, strategic research and innovation plan, annual 
report, and annual research and innovation report for  the institute and each 
department, with the contributions of HODs/other employees as appropriate as per 
the guidelines of the Executive President. 
3.7.3.34. Perform all other duties, roles, responsibilities and functions that may be entrusted 
by the Executive President, and o ther Leadership and Senior Management Team 
members of Indus University. 
3.7.4.    Indicative Work Load: 
The indicative workload given below is o nly a guideline. The actual workload may 
vary according to the time spent on other activities, individual responsibilities and 
working requirements.  
 
S. No. Weekly Activities 
Hours 
Per 
Week 
1. Direct Teaching – Theory (Minimum) 4 
2. Review and monitoring teaching, lab and tutorial work 5 
3. 
Review of progress of departmental teaching activities 
and research work 
6 
4. 
Attending the grievances of the students / faculty 
matters 
12 
5. Accreditation related activities 6 
6. 
Monitoring of APAR, Review of Industrial training / 
visits / placement/skill development activities etc. 
7 
Minimum Effective Work Hours Per Week :................. 40* 
     
*The above work load includes direct teaching, tutorial, practical and other 
co-curricular activities.  The teaching load of two hours of tutorial and 
practical will be counted as one hour. (e.g. 12 hours direct teaching, 6 hours 
tutorial and 6 hours for practical will be cou nted as 18 hours effective load 
whereas the total number of contact hours will be 24 hours.) 
 
3.8. Chief Finance & Accounts Officer  
Chief Finance & Accounts Officer (CFAO) manages the overall financial activities 
and supervises the compilation and preparation of financial statements and reports, 
develops and pursues positive practices, and evolves strategies for internal growth 
and effectively manages the revenues of the University. The CF AO works in close 
cooperation with the Executive President to assist in creating plans and opportunities

--- PAGE 32 ---
32 
 
for the maximum benefit of the university . He must set appropriate goals for the 
organization and oversee action required to complete them successfully. It is his duty 
to see that his respons ibilities specified in the Act, Statutes, Ordinances and 
Regulations are duly observed. In addition, he shall ensure the following: 
3.8.1. The position of CFAO requires strong self-discipline and managerial skills, as well as 
an equally strong spirit of teamwork and cooperation. The CFAO must set 
appropriate goals for each institute/university and oversee the action required to 
complete them successfully. He  must likewise build and maintain productive 
business relationships in order to achieve a unified vision that ensures everyone 
within the university remains committed to the laid down course of action. 
3.8.2. He shall be the principal finance, accounts and internal audit officer of the university. 
3.8.3. He will be a full-time salaried officer and shall report to the Executive President. 
3.8.4. He will be engaged in all the budget related activities by the President /Executive 
President and the budget committee of the Board of Finance & Accounts to develop 
short, medium, and long-term financial plans and projections. 
3.8.5. He will be the Member -Secretary of the Board of Finance and Accounts. He shall 
perform all functions as specified in the statutes, ordinances and other tasks as may 
be assigned or delegated to him  by the Board of Finance a nd Accounts or by the 
President/Executive President. 
3.8.6. He shall issue the agenda and maintain minutes of all the meetings of Board of 
Finance and Accounts and of other committees appointed by the Board of Finance 
and Accounts.  
3.8.7. He can be invited as an observer in the proceedings in Board of Management.  
3.8.8. He shall have the right to be present, speak and otherwise take part in the 
proceedings of the Board of Management on matters which have financial 
implications but he shall not be entitled to vote. 
3.8.9. He will be responsible for preparation of financial plan/annual bu dget of each 
department under constituent institutes in close coordination with the director/dean 
of the institutes , followed by regular review and follow -up. He will be presenting, 
clarifying any queries on the financial plan/annual budget, statement of accounts and 
audit reports for obtaining approval from the Board of Finance and Accounts and to 
the Board of Management. 
3.8.10. He shall take measures to make each institute as a revenue center with the aim to 
make it self-sustaining.   
3.8.11. He shall exercise general supervision o ver the funds of the university  and shall 
advise the Executive President as regards the finances of the university regularly.   
3.8.12. He holds and manage s the funds, property and investments, including trust and 
endowed property, for furthering any of the objectives of the university.

--- PAGE 33 ---
33 
 
3.8.13. He shall carry out the audit of the assets and recurring/non-recurring capital/revenue 
expenditure and shall ensure that the limits fixed by the university for recurring and 
non-recurring expenditure for a year are not exceeded, and that all allocations are 
expended for the purposes for which they are granted or allotted. 
3.8.14. He shall keep watch on the state of the cash and bank balance and of investments. 
3.8.15. He shall keep a watch on the progress of collection of revenue and advise the 
Executive President on the methods to be employed for collection. 
3.8.16. He shall ensure that the registers of buildings, land, equipment and machinery are 
maintained up-to-date and that the stock taking of equipment and other consumable 
materials in all offices, workshops and stores of the university is conducted regularly.  
3.8.17. He shall ensure that the pre-audit of all the supply orders are done.  
3.8.18. He shall propose to the Registrar that explanation be called from any non-academic 
member for unauthorized expenditure or irregularities in any particular case, and 
recommend disciplinary action against the persons at fault . Similarly, in case of 
academic members, he shall propose to the Executive President. 
3.8.19. He shall call for from any office, center, laboratory, department or institute of the 
university or any other university institution, for any information and returns that he 
thinks necessary for the proper discharge of his financial responsibilities. 
3.8.20. He shall exercise such other powers, perform such other duties, and discharge such 
other financial functions as are assigned to him by the Executive President or as 
prescribed by the Statues and Ordinances.  
3.8.21. He shall oversee all payroll related activities in respect of all the staff. 
3.8.22. He shall develop and maintain systems of internal controls to safeguard financial 
assets of the University and oversee the coordination and activities of independent 
auditors. 
3.8.23. He shall monitor banking activities of the University. 
3.8.24. He shall ensure adequate cash flow to meet the University’s needs. 
3.8.25. He shall introduce, in consultation with the HR, the  cost-effective benefit plans and 
other fringe  benefits which the organization may offer employees and potential 
employees with the goal of attracting and retaining qualified individuals. 
3.8.26. He shall assist HR Department in the design, implementation, and timely calculations 
of wage incentives and salaries for the staff. 
3.8.27. He shall oversee Accounts Payable and Accounts Receivable and ensure that a 
disaster recovery plan is in place. 
3.8.28. He is responsible for the coordination and preparation of the annual audit with an 
outside audit professional services team, i ncluding preparation of supporting 
documents.  
3.8.29. He is responsible for taking follow up corrective action on the audit report received.

--- PAGE 34 ---
34 
 
3.8.30. He shall coordinate with independent audit and tax team and organization personnel 
to ensure audits run smoothly and are completed in a timely manner. 
3.8.31. He shall oversee budgeting and the implementation of budgets so as to monitor 
progress and present financial metrics both internally and externally regularly. 
3.8.32. He shall develop and utilize  forward-looking, predictive model s and activity -based 
financial analys is to provide insight into the university’s operations and business 
plans. 
  
3.9. Joint Registrar 
The Joint Registrar has multifarious responsibilities and is a key member of the 
management team of the university.  He shall provide effective management and 
leadership for all students related issues and shall function under the Registrar. The 
roles and responsibilities of the Joint Registrar shall include, though not limited to, 
the following responsibilities:  
3.9.1. He shall be in -charge of the Students Section and the custodian  of all student 
records, both present and past.  
3.9.2. He shall oversee the admission process and connected documentation for all 
courses. 
3.9.3. He will oversee the fee collection process from students.  
3.9.4. He shall be responsible for the filling of examination forms for all semesters and issue 
of hall tickets to students.  
3.9.5. He shall oversee the  issue of migr ation and transfer certificates, no -objection 
certificates, mark sheets, transcripts and all such other documents.  
3.9.6. He is a key member of the Admission Committee and shall be involved in planning, 
strategizing and execution of the marketing/admission activities.  
3.9.7. He shall coordinate the admission activities of those visiting the campus for 
admission purposes and be the nodal person in this regard.  
3.9.8. He shall be the nodal person for dealing on all official correspondence/online 
interaction with various regulatory authorities and government agencies (both 
Central and State), submission of reports and returns as required and be responsible 
for their timely and correct submission.  
3.9.9. He shall be responsible for coordinating and meeting the requirements of the 
Admission Council for Professional Courses (ACPC) and the Fee Regulatory 
Committee (FRC) and any interaction/follow-up required with them.  
3.9.10. He shall prepare and submit documentation required for any new courses or 
changing intake of existing courses to the required authorities and for their follow up.

--- PAGE 35 ---
35 
 
3.9.11. He shall be responsible for getting all documentation completed for various types of 
scholarships, submitting the documents to requisite Government office/department 
and overseeing their disbursement and thereafter maintaining their documentation.  
3.9.12. He shall maintain the register of SC/ST/SEBC/minority caste student details.  
3.9.13. He shall be the nodal person for all interactions with GTU.  
3.9.14. He, in consultation with CoE,  shall be responsible for  responding to student 
verification requests received from other organizations/external sources.  
3.9.15. He shall be responsible for processing of all requests for a transfer of students from 
/to other institutions. 
  
3.10. Controller of Examinations 
The Controller of Examinations shall be the principal officer in-charge for the conduct 
of examinations/tests and decl aration of results. He will function under the 
superintendence and guidance of the Registrar and the  Chairman, Board of 
Examinations and Results (BOER). He will discharge the responsibilities, though not 
limited to, the following tasks: 
3.10.1. Controller of Examinations shall be responsible for making all arrangements 
necessary for holding examinations and tests and declaration of results. It shall be 
his responsibility: 
3.10.1.1. To prepare and announce in advance the calendar of examinations  in consultation 
with Dean(Academics).  
3.10.1.2. To ensure timely availability of question papers obtained from internal/external 
faculty. 
3.10.1.3. To arrange to get performance of the candidates at the examinations properly 
assessed and to process the results. 
3.10.1.4. To arrange for the timely publication of results of examinations and other tests; 
3.10.1.5. To postpone or cancel examinations, in part or in whole, in the event of malpractices 
or if the circumstances so warrant, initiate disciplinary action or any civil or criminal 
proceedings against any person or a group of persons or an institute alleged to have 
committed the malpractices. 
3.10.1.6. To initiate disciplinary action where necessary against the candidates, paper setters, 
examiners, moderators, or any other persons connected with examinations and 
found guilty of malpractices in relation to the examinations.  
3.10.1.7. He will be responsible for making all arrangements necessary for holding 
examinations/tests and declaration of resul ts starting from preparation, 
announcement of the examination calendar to printing of question papers.  
3.10.1.8. To arrange and ensure correct and timely evaluation of answer sheets. 
3.10.1.9. To ensure the accuracy of the results.

--- PAGE 36 ---
36 
 
3.10.1.10. To r eview the results from time to time an d forward reports to the  BOER and 
Academic Council through the Registrar.  
3.10.1.11. To exercise such powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed or 
assigned to him by the BOER / Registrar from time to time. 
3.10.1.12. To be the Member-Secretary of the BOER and of the committees appointed by the 
board. He shall be responsible for prompt and proper implementation of their 
decisions.  
3.10.1.13. To promulgate, after due approval, all policies regarding Academic Regulations, 
evaluation, conduct of examination, transfer of stud ents, credit policy, conduct of 
dissertation /thesis and related issues. He shall also continuously review these 
policies to ensure that any changes required are approved and implemented.  
3.10.1.14. To verify all transcripts and mark sheets which are being issued by  the student 
section.  
3.11. Head of the Department (HoD)  
The position of HoD requires high quality of leadership, vision, proactive planning, 
active and reactive planning, organizational, communication, interaction, faculty/staff 
and student development, mentoring, monitoring and motivational skills in relation to 
teaching, research and innovation, administration and management and all other 
curricular and extra-curricular activities of the University. In order to create congenial 
and professional environm ent leading to high quality of teaching and learning, 
research and innovation, the performance and achievements of the HoD in all below-
mentioned areas/roles/responsibilities will be evaluated once in every 6 months on 
a semester basis .  The HoD at the University will need to carry out the following 
duties in his Department in a timely manner with a high degree of leadership, 
professionalism, efficiency and effectiveness as per the current policies, procedures, 
rules and regulations of Indus University. In addition, the HoD should encourage a 
non-biased and fair environment and strictly avoid unnecessary gossip, office politics 
and discourage faculty and staff from such activities and to sensitize all accordingly. 
The main charter of duties of the HoD is as follows: 
3.11.1. The major function is to contribute towards the implementation of the vision, mission 
and objectives of the department in alignment with those of the institute/university.  
3.11.2. To ensure that academic progress of students of the Department is developed and 
maintained and that student issues are treated on a case-to-case basis as and when 
required.  
3.11.3. To preside over all the meetings of the Departmental Committee/Board of Studies. 
3.11.4. To i nitiate minimum two formal meetings per semester to identify issues and 
requirements of each faculty/staff in the Department as well as monitor the 
performance of each faculty/staff. Meetings should have proper agenda and minutes

--- PAGE 37 ---
37 
 
recorded along with and connected performance/review documents. Additionally, 
numerous informal meetings should be held to stay abreast of the state of affairs in 
the department. 
3.11.5. To conduct dedicated one-to-one interaction with all faculty members and review the 
lesson plans, teaching aids etc. so that teaching quality can be improved.  
3.11.6. To allot teaching work such as subjects, classes, time-table, etc. in consultation with 
the Departmental Committee and respective faculty/staff. 
3.11.7. To d evelop, encourage and improve research and innov ation culture in the 
Department, and seek opportunities and environment for research and innovation 
projects, externally funded projects;  local, regional, national and international 
research collaborations and partnerships and interactions within the Department and 
across the University.   
3.11.8. To a llot classroom accommodation, and make or facilitate all other necessary 
arrangements for teaching, laboratory and field activities, and research and 
innovation activities. Deficiencies in infrastructure and resources  should be notified 
to the Director immediately. 
3.11.9. To prepare a long term up -gradation plan for the laboratories of the department to 
ensure that latest advancements in technology are incorporated.    
3.11.10. To develop and update job description for each faculty/staff in the Department. 
3.11.11. To complete his own daily, weekly and monthly activity reports on time. 
3.11.12. To ensure that each employee of the department completes his daily, weekly and 
monthly activity reports on time.  
3.11.13. To implement performance management plan and procedures including goal setting 
and performance evaluations for each faculty/staff.   
3.11.14. To monitor and maintain good discipline including high attendance of faculty, staff 
and students in the Department. 
3.11.15. To mentor and motivate faculty/staff to carry out high quality teaching, research and 
innovation and students’ training.  
3.11.16. To e ncourage, monitor and facilitate faculty/staff to lead and perform industrial 
trainings and job placements for students in collaboration with training and placement 
department.  
3.11.17. To ensure that curriculum in all subjects are updated regularly/annually. 
3.11.18. To make sure that contents of the Department on the university website are updated 
frequently and all activities are intimated promptly to concerned individual.  
3.11.19. To achieve a high level of recognition, reputation and image of the Department by 
developing a highly talented faculty/staff team as well as by facilitating and providing 
an environment for innovative and high quality teaching, leading edge research and 
innovation, and skill development. In case any faculty is seeking funds for attending

--- PAGE 38 ---
38 
 
conferences, lectures and seminars, the HOD should refer the case to the Dean 
(Academics) through Director at the earliest. 
3.11.20. To grant casual leave to teaching and non -teaching employees of the D epartment 
as per rules. 
3.11.21. To recommend to the Executive President the names of the candidates for the award 
of Research Fellowships in consultation with the Departmental Committee through 
the Director of his institute. 
3.11.22. To hold departmental conferences and seminars with prior notification and approval 
of the Director. 
3.11.23. To p lace requisition for purchase of books for library related to different subjects  
through the Director and Dean (Academics). 
3.11.24. To recommend to the Registrar through proper channel for the purchase of required 
equipment and other items.  
3.11.25. To ensure that all the equipment and stores on the charge of the department are 
maintained regularly and kept in good working condition and to ensure that r outine 
activities like servicing, calibration etc. are carried out when due  and a record 
maintained. 
3.11.26. To c arry out periodic review of stores and equipment with the department and 
recommend for discarding those which are obsolete or not repairable.  
3.11.27. To identify students from the department who can be groomed  as potential faculty 
members in their respective departments. 
3.11.28. To m aintain a list of potential/confirmed trouble -creator students. This doesn’t 
necessarily mean students who are weak in academics, but rather those who are 
involved in any activity, which goes against the spirit of the University. 
3.11.29. To share with all concerned the data of students who are enrolled in each semester 
so that the inactive students can be identified by Student Section, CoE and CFAO. 
3.11.30. To ad here to any other academic, researc h or administrative responsibilities 
mentioned in his appointment/joining contracts.  
3.11.31. To p erform all other duties, roles, responsibilities, and functions that may be 
entrusted by the Executive President / Deans / Directors /Registrar / Leadership and 
the Management Team at Indus University. 
3.11.32. Indicative Work Load 
The indicative workload given below is only a guideline.  The actual workload may 
vary according to the time spent on other activities, individual responsibilities and 
working requirements.  
S.No. Weekly Activities 
Hours 
Per Week

--- PAGE 39 ---
39 
 
1. Direct teaching – (Minimum 12 hours Theory)  14-16 
2. Students major and minor projects, seminars, presentations etc. 4 
3. 
Developing and updating department strategic research and 
innovation plan in alignment with those of institute and the University, 
creating research and innovation culture across the department, 
guiding PhD scholar s, identifying and facilitating research a nd 
innovation projects across the department, grant writing and 
facilitation for research funding, implementing and monitoring 
sponsored research projects, bring strategic research and industrial 
collaborations, facilitating and leading inter - and intra -university 
research and innovation projects, overseeing and advising 
department research and innovation cell, developing and facilitating 
multidisciplinary research projects, consultancy, facilitating 
knowledge and technology transfers and commercialization,  and all 
other activities related to research and innovation     
8 
4. 
Continuing internal evaluation of faculties, staff, and reviewing daily, 
weekly and monthly activity reports from each employee of the 
department and mentoring of students 
6 
5. 
Industrial visits, training and placement of students, skill 
development, mentoring, coordination activities, checking and 
responding to emails, inter-departmental meetings, website updates, 
and other relevant curricular and extracurricular activities etc. 
6-8 
Minimum  Effective Work Hours Per Week:……….. 38-42* 
 
*The above work  load includes direct teaching, tutorial, practical and other co -curricular 
activities.  The teaching load of two hours of tutorial and practical will be counted as one hour. 
(e.g. 12 hours direct teaching, 6 hours tutorial and 6 hours for practical will be counted as 18 
hours effective load whereas the total number of contact hours will be 24 hours.) 
 
3.12. Faculty Member  
The faculty position requires sincerity, dedication, passion, interest, knowledge and skills 
in teaching, research, innovation, practical experiments and skill development. The 
position needs high quality planning for theory and practical classes, research  and 
innovation activities, administration and management, laboratory preparation and 
maintenance, interacting and communicating with students and laboratory instructors, 
mentoring and monitoring stude nts and laboratory instructors and motivating them. In 
order to create a congenial and professional environment leading to high quality of 
teaching and practical learning, the performance and achievements of the faculty

--- PAGE 40 ---
40 
 
members in all of below-mentioned areas/roles/responsibilities will be evaluated once in 
every 6 months on a semester basis. 
3.12.1. The major function of a faculty member is to contribute towards the implementation of 
the vision, mission and objectives of the department in alignment with those of  the 
institute and Indus University. 
3.12.2. The faculty membe r must carry out high quality teaching, participate in research and 
innovation projects, develop highly professional pedagogy for the allotted subjects, and 
contribute actively towards research and innovation related activities in the department.  
3.12.3. In order to carry out the above functions effectively, the faculty member needs to carry 
out the following roles and responsibilities: 
3.12.3.1. To e nhance own knowledge in the subjects the faculty is going to teach through 
continuous reading of technical books, research papers, technical magazines, internet 
sources etc.  
3.12.3.2. To prepare detailed lesson plans containing the breakup of the syllabus to the level of 
what is to be taught in each lecture, before the start of the semester for his assigned 
subjects. 
3.12.3.3. To p lan the pedago gy for subjects including the slides, diagrams, notes, practical 
examples, etc. 
3.12.3.4. To t ake attendance in the classes and laboratories, maintain its record, and inform 
students/parents about irregular attendance of students. 
3.12.3.5. To get the students involved in a p articular subject and enhance their understanding, 
the faculty must plan and task students with work/assignments related to the course to 
be carried out outside the classroom. This may include mini-projects, simulation studies, 
model making, problems to solve, data collection and analysis, etc. 
3.12.3.6. To p lan, allocate, guide and monitor the progress of student projects for timely 
completion. 
3.12.3.7. To work on their own sponsored research and innovation projects which can lead to 
obtaining research funding from external agencies/organizations. 
3.12.3.8. To write research grant applications, projects, research articles, papers and books. 
3.12.3.9. To publish his research and innovation project works in journals and present findings in 
recognized and reputed conferences. 
3.12.3.10. To attend conferences, seminars, and tutorials to keep abreast with the recent advances 
in his fields. Funding for the same can be arranged by discussions with the HoD and the 
Director of his institute.  
3.12.3.11. To undertake experiments that enhance understanding of the subject by stud ents, and 
prepare a Lab Manual for the labs assigned. 
3.12.3.12. To prepare the curriculum and update the syllabus every year or as often as required to 
include the latest developments in the respective fields in consultation with the HoD.

--- PAGE 41 ---
41 
 
3.12.3.13. To guide postgraduate students and review their dissertations regularly and maintain a 
record of the same. 
3.12.3.14. To plan, indent and monitor procurement action for laboratory equipment, computers 
and software as well as accessories required in their subjects, in consultation with the 
HoDs. 
3.12.3.15. To take proactive action to upgrade the laboratories to keep abreast of new technologies 
and knowledge and put up proposals to their HoD.  
3.12.3.16. To train, guide and monitor the work of the laboratory instructors assigned to them and 
to e nsure through  laboratory instructors that all equipment, instruments, computers, 
software and facilities are maintained/ serviced/ calibrated/ updated before the 
calibration expiry dates and all software licenses are renewed or updated regularly or 
before expiry dates. 
3.12.3.17. In addition to discharging normal class -room duties, to co-operate with the HoD and 
Director of the institute and other members of faculty faithfully and with due care and 
caution in promotion of an atmosphere of academic and research excellence and in the 
performance of extra duties and shall devote extra time which may be required for the 
development of the students or the University in general. 
3.12.3.18. To recommend standard books, magazines and journals in their fields to the library well 
before the start of semesters, through their HoDs. 
3.12.3.19. To mentor the student groups regularly addressing their needs. 
3.12.3.20. To plan industrial visits relevant to the courses that the students study  and to e nsure 
that the Industrial Visit Book issued to all students is completed by all students and that 
its assessment forms a part of the CIE marks.  
3.12.3.21. To plan and maintain the class and examination time tables and display them for the 
information of students. 
3.12.3.22. To p lan and conduct continuous internal evaluation components and display the 
grades/marks regularly. 
3.12.3.23. To plan and conduct practical examinations and viva voce involving external examiners, 
prepare the results and assist in invigilation work. 
3.12.3.24. To set the papers for mid and end semester examinations and assess them timely for 
compilation of results. 
3.12.3.25. To support the student activities including sports, cultural and technical events. 
3.12.3.26. To maintain the medical leave applications of students. 
3.12.3.27. To identify experts from industry, research organizations and other institutes, and invite 
them for expert lectures.  
3.12.3.28. To engage the classes of other faculty when they are away on leave as per the load 
adjustment by the department coordinator or HoD. 
3.12.3.29. To help the HoD in departmental activities as and when needed.

--- PAGE 42 ---
42 
 
3.12.3.30. To maintain and update monthly personal profile and file, curriculum vitae, contributions 
and achievements, etc. and forward the same to HR Department and to IT Department 
for updating university website through the departmental media coordinators. 
3.12.3.31. To maintain and update other departmental files assigned to them as instructed by the 
HoD. 
3.12.3.32. To c omplete and maintain their daily, weekly and monthly activity reports and other 
records/information according to cu rrent policies, procedures, rules and regulations of 
Indus University.  
3.12.3.33. To carry out any other academic, research or administration related activities mentioned 
in his appointment letter/joining instructions or contracts.  
3.12.3.34. To perform all other duties, role s, responsibilities and functions that may be entrusted 
by the HoD/Director/any other competent authorities of the University. 
3.12.4. Indicative Work Load: 
The indicative workload given below is only a guideline. The actual workload may vary 
according to the time spent on other activities, individual responsibilities and working 
requirements. 
 
 
S. No. 
 
Weekly Activities 
 
Hours per 
Week 
 
 a) Teaching – Theory, Tutorials & Practical (12 hours) 
 (2 hrs relaxed for those guiding PhD)  
 
1 
 
 b) Tutorial/laboratory classes will be taken as 50% while 
calculating workload 
18 
 
(a)   Students major and minor projects; Research and 
innovation – conduct research and innovation projects, 
sponsored projects through external grant, consultancy 
projects, knowledge/technology transfer and 
commercialization 
2 
 
(b)  
 
Guiding PhD and Master’s degree research projects and 
perform scholarly activities such as publication of books, 
reviews, research papers  and conference proceedings. 
10 
 
 Contribute to or participate in seminars, conferences, 
Short Term Training Programmes (STTPs), 
workshops, Faculty Development Programmes 
(FDPs) and invited talks, and become an active 
member of professional bodies 
 
3 
 
 Syllabus enrichment (additional teaching, providing 
additional resources to students, and innovative 
means), updating subject contents/course 
improvement, evaluation and assessment 
(tutorials, practicals, and examination papers), 
subject related events, mentorship, advisement 
and counselling and administrative and 
10

--- PAGE 43 ---
43 
 
academic activities related to training and 
placement, skill development of students in 
jobs. 
 
 Minimum Effective Work Hours Per Week:……….. 
 
40*  
 
                                                     
 *The above work load includes direct teaching, tutorial, practical and other co-curricular 
activities.  The teaching load of two hours of tutorial and practical will be counted as 
one hour. (e.g. 12 hours direct teaching, 6 hours tutorial and 6 hours for practical 
will be counted as 18 hours effective load whereas the total number of contact 
hours will be 24 hours.) 
 
3.13. Administrative Coordinator (AC) 
The position of Administrative Coordinator entails day-to-day administration of the staff and 
students of the university. It requires sincerity, dedication and a proactive attitude  on the 
part of AC  to manage the daily administration and tackle challenges without delay. The 
individual will function  under the overall supervision of the Registrar and assist in the 
administration of the University. The performance will be evaluated once a year.  
The duties will include, but not limited to, the following:  
3.13.1. Housekeeping of the campus , including overseeing the functioning of the 
outsourced agency carrying out this task.  
3.13.2. Security of the campus including overseeing the security agency.  
3.13.3. Managing the hostels. 
3.13.4. Overseeing the functioning of the university canteens/food courts. 
3.13.5. Managing transportation, both university vehicles and contract buses.  
3.13.6. Upkeep and b ooking of auditorium , seminar hall s and event management for 
university functions. 
3.13.7. Responsible for procurement of stationery, student kits, manuals etc.  and printing 
through Purchase and Stores. 
3.13.8. Purchase and Stores Related Works 
3.13.8.1. Receiving material requirements / indents from various agencies for ongoing project 
works. 
3.13.8.2. Planning, indenting and obtaining quotations for project material, construction 
material, furniture and fixtures. 
3.13.8.3. Coordinating with suppliers for technical/commercial queries. 
3.13.8.4. Preparation of comparative statements.  
3.13.8.5. Preparation of approval notes for all purchase related documentation. 
3.13.8.6. Preparing the purchase orders for final approval. 
3.13.8.7. Receiving of indented stores and maintaining the inventory.

--- PAGE 44 ---
44 
 
3.13.8.8. Bill verification and processing of stores received. 
3.13.8.9. Overseeing Stores Department for maintaining reorder of materials and items 
related to maintenance and project works. 
3.13.8.10. Follow-up with Accounts Dept. for payments to suppliers. 
3.13.8.11. Carrying out annual stock taking of materials and assets of the university.  
3.13.9. Managing the guest rooms, including their booking. 
3.13.10. Classroom logistics, allotment and other related issues.  
3.13.11. Core team member of Admission Committee, Library Committee, Students Affairs 
Committee (SAC) and Women Development Cell (WDC).  
3.13.12. Organizing visits of university guests including parents and admission seekers. 
3.13.13. Managing the university  email ID  (info@indusuni.ac.in) and disseminating 
information to all concerned. 
3.13.14. Coordinator of university monthly e-newsletter. 
3.13.15. Managing logistics requirements of all staff members. 
3.13.16. Providing the logistic support for conducting examinations of outside agencies.  
3.13.17. Managing all drivers and attendants. 
3.13.18. Any other duties assigned from time to time.  
 
3.14.  Assistant Registrar         
The Assistant Registrar has multifarious responsibilities and is a key member of the 
management team of the university. It requires sincerity, dedication and a proactive 
attitude to manage the daily administration and tackle challenges without delay. The 
individual will function under the overall supervision of the Registrar of the 
University. The duties will include, but not limited to, the following: 
3.14.1. Member of the Admission Committee and shall be involved in execution of all 
admission related activities.  
3.14.2. Preparing drafts of various policies, circulars, office orders, regulations and 
correspondences with various authorities.  
3.14.3. Interaction/correspondence with outside agencies, as directed by Executive 
President and Registrar. 
3.14.4. Overseeing the various activities of the Hostels and assist Hostel Warden in his 
day-to-day activities. 
3.14.5. Assist the Executive President and Registrar in the performance of their duties.  
3.14.6. Assist in preparation of agenda for the meetings of Academic Council, Board of 
Management, Board of Governance, Standing Committee and any other meetings 
held, and compilation of relevant documents to be placed in these meetings. 
3.14.7. Recording and preparation of Minutes of the above meetings. 
3.14.8. Planning and execution for Convocation every year.

--- PAGE 45 ---
45 
 
3.14.9. Maintenance and follow-up of all circulars and records of university and registers. 
3.14.10. Any other responsibilities assigned by the competent authority from time to time.  
 
3.15. Manager (HR) /Assistant Manager (HR) 
The Manager (HR) /Assistant Manager (HR) of the university plays a very vital role 
in Human Resource Management (HRM) in the university. This includes ensuring  
the availability of suitabl y qualified and experienced human resources at all levels 
and maintaining their morale at a very high level. I n academic institutions, majority 
of the employees are the teaching staff and their timely availability has a direct 
bearing on providing quality education that would make our graduates industry 
ready. The important responsibilities of the Manager (HR) /Assistant Manager (HR) 
will include but not limited to the following: 
3.15.1. To handle all HR matters related to all employees – teaching staff including 
visiting/adjunct/subject experts, non-teaching staff, admin staff and admin support 
staff, contractual staff, etc. 
3.15.2. To f orecast and plan  the recruitments/selection of various staff at all levels and 
issuance of appointment letters. 
3.15.3. To plan and organize selection committees for in-house promotions through Career 
Advancement Scheme (CAS). 
3.15.4. To initiate proposals for a retrenchment/retirement of staff as required. 
3.15.5. To process cases for disciplinary action against all staff. 
3.15.6. To maintain the leave data of all the staff through ERP.  
3.15.7. To recommend cases for awarding incentives pertaining to both teaching and non-
teaching employees of the University. 
3.15.8. To put-up proposals for implementation of annual increment/personal pay/special 
pay to all staff as per the relevant Government Orders or instructions of 
management from time to time and Initiate annual performance appraisal process. 
3.15.9. To initiate cases for implementation of UGC/AICTE/CoA Pay Scales to the teaching 
staff of the university or as directed by the management. 
3.15.10. To initiate proposals for release of advertisements for the recruitment of all staff 
members.  
3.15.11. To coordinate  with different constituent institutes and general administration to 
consolidate manpower requirement/work  force planning for optimum utilization of 
resources for efficient and smooth functioning of the university. 
3.15.12. To review and initiate HR regulations of all employees for approval.  
3.15.13. To upkeep all HR records of all the employees.  However, confidential files will be 
dealt with as per Point No. 16 of APAR. 
3.15.14. To arrange induction of all newly joined staff.

--- PAGE 46 ---
46 
 
3.15.15. To ensure completion of all formalities including payment of amount due to all staff 
who leave the university due to resignation/retirement/otherwise.  
3.15.16. To process all cases related to HR Matters. 
3.15.17. Employee engagements.  
3.15.18. Training and development activities. 
3.15.19. To represent the university in the celebrat ions and/or related activities concerning 
the staff. 
3.15.20. To act as a nodal agency for activities related to Institutional-Social Responsibilities 
(ISR). 
 
3.16. Estate Manager 
The Estate Manager will function under the overall supervision of the Registrar. 
  
3.16.1. Maintenance Related Works.  
   This includes administration work related to Maintenance Dept., like liaising, 
documentation, and record keeping. This includes, but is not limited to, the 
following: - 
3.16.1.1. Maintenance of D. G. Set, H.T. to L.T. Transformer, AMF Panel, LT Panel, Solar 
PV Plant, Cabling, Switchgears, Submersible Pumps and other 
Electrical/mechanical/civil/water supply fixtures, etc. 
3.16.1.2. Maintenance of furniture and fixtures. 
3.16.1.3. EPABX programming and maintenance. 
3.16.1.4. Utility equipment’s’ maintenance (A.C., Water Cooler, R.O. Plant etc.). 
3.16.1.5. LAN cabling for computer networking and replacing the defective LAN wires. 
3.16.1.6. Coordinating and leading a team of Electricians and Plumbers. 
3.16.1.7. Receiving complaints from the various departments and their rectification through 
maintenance staff or contractors. 
3.16.1.8. Assigning daily duties to maintenance staff. 
3.16.1.9. Optimizing manpower and laying down safe maintenance and operation practices. 
3.16.1.10. Training of maintenance dept. staff. 
3.16.1.11. Monitoring day to day electrical consumption of H.T . connection and taking 
necessary action for electrical energy savings. 
3.16.1.12. Liaisoning with UGVCL for electric supply and to resolve technical queries. 
3.16.1.13. Ensuring timely payment of UGVCL bills. 
3.16.1.14. Maintaining records of warranty/ AMC sta tus and ensuring  renewal of AMC of 
installed equipment. 
3.16.1.15. Maintaining and safe keeping of duplicate keys of all the offices, classrooms and 
Labs of the campus.

--- PAGE 47 ---
47 
 
3.16.1.16. Coordinating with Lab Assistants for maintenance of instruments. 
3.16.1.17. Coordinating with suppliers for technical queries of technical equipment supplied 
by them. 
3.16.1.18. Maintenance of Solar Plant including Net Metering (Export of surplus solar power 
to the state government grid). 
3.16.1.19. Plan and get approvals for all types of maintenance including proactive, active,  
and reactive.  
3.16.1.20. Coordinating and leading the team of tradesmen for maintenance of work of all 
assets on the campus. 
3.16.2. Monitoring Contractors Works 
3.16.2.1. Civil, Mechanical and Electrical works; 
3.16.2.2. Installation, commissioning and testing of utility equipments like Air -conditioning 
Systems, D.G. Set, Elevators, R.O. Plant, and Solar System; 
3.16.2.3. Furniture/carpentry, painting and plumbing works; 
3.16.2.4. Coordinating with various contractors for works in progress and further planning. 
3.16.2.5. Monitoring sump drain-out agency’s work. 
3.16.3. Any other responsibilities: 
3.16.3.1. Providing assistance to Administrative Coordinator for  event management, for  
preparation of auditorium as well as outdoor venue for Seminars, Meetings, 
Convocation, Rhapsody and Garba Festival etc.  
3.16.3.2. Providing technical and logistic support for all university functions. 
 
3.17. Lab. Assistant / Lab. Instructor / Lab. In-charge  
Indus University endeavors to create an environment where practice meets theory. The 
curricula of programmes have been dedicated to experimental learning. The upgraded 
syllabi are  duly supported by hands -on experience in laboratories to meet industrial 
requirements. In order to realize this objective, the job of Lab.  Assistant/ Lab. Instructor/ 
Lab. In-charge assumes significance. Consequently, the crucial function of a Lab. Assistant/ 
Lab. Instructor/ Lab. In-charge is to support the faculty members of the department towards 
the implementation of the vision, mission and objectives of the department in alignment with 
those of the University. The position of Lab. Assistant/ Lab. Instructor/ Lab. In-charge 
requires sincerity, dedication and proactive involvement in laboratory planning and 
preparation, indenting for  materials and parts, interacting and communicating with 
faculty/staff and students, monitoring and motivating students, looking into laboratory 
equipment repairs/calibration, maintenance, handling administrative duties  and keeping 
documentation up to date.  
 
In order to create a congenial and professional environment leading to high quality of 
teaching and practical learning, the performance and achievements of the Lab. Assistant/

--- PAGE 48 ---
48 
 
Lab. Instructor/ Lab. In-charge in all above-mentioned areas will be evaluated on a regular 
basis once in every semester. 
3.17.1. The main functions of a Laboratory Assistant/Instructor/In -charge are to help the teachers 
in smoothly conducting laboratory experiments  and maintain ing all equipment and 
laboratory facilities in good working condition. In order to carry out the above functions 
effectively, the roles and responsibilities of the Laboratory Assistant/Instructor/In-charge are 
as follows:  
3.17.1.1. Study, perform and b e conversant wit h all the experiments himself  before th e 
commencement of the semester. 
3.17.1.2. Must learn use of all the software used in their laboratories. 
3.17.1.3. Develop the training skills amongst the students in coordination with the HoD; 
3.17.1.4. Arrange all raw material and consumables required for the training well in advance. 
3.17.1.5. Facilitate the students in conducting the experiments. 
3.17.1.6. Maintain required registers/log books, and update records of all the equipments, 
instruments, computers, software and furniture in their laboratories regularly. 
3.17.1.7. Ensure adequacy of safety arrangements in the laboratory and advise the faulty in-charge 
of the laboratory accordingly.   
3.17.1.8. Take care of laboratories assigned by keeping them clean, free of clutter and to regularly 
check the equipments, inst ruments, computers, software and furniture, and take 
necessary actions for repairs as required. 
3.17.1.9. Assist the concerned faculty member /Head of the Department (HoD) to maintain the list 
of all equipments, instruments, computers, software and facilities in the department with 
their locations, calibration/update details, and calibration/update expiry dates. 
3.17.1.10. Make sure that all equipment, instruments, computers, software, licenses and facilities 
are regularly calibrated / updated before the expiry dates in consultation with the HoD. 
3.17.1.11. Display the laboratory occupancy, experiment list, equipment and software list, and layout 
of the laboratory on the display board of the laboratory.                                                  
3.17.1.12. Prepare a maintenance schedule for all  the laboratory equipment, display the same in 
the laboratory and ensure the maintenance tasks are carried out diligently and recorded.   
3.17.1.13. Identify the materials and consumables needed in the laboratory and inform details to the 
faculty in charge. 
3.17.1.14. Maintain the registers of the inventory of materials/components and equipment and 
maintenance record of the laboratory. 
3.17.1.15. Take the attendance of students in each laboratory sessio n and prepare attendance 
sheets. 
3.17.1.16. Assist faculty members and HoD in departmental work and assist faculty members in CIE 
or university examination related work.

--- PAGE 49 ---
49 
 
3.17.1.17. Keep copies of evaluated Laboratory Manuals for UGC inspe ction and department 
references. 
3.17.1.18. Assist in conducting the practical examinations and invigilation duties. 
3.17.1.19. Use free time in updat ing knowledge in subjects by studying books and l earning from 
internet. 
3.17.1.20. Help in other laboratories when the concerned laboratory instructors are on leave. 
3.17.1.21. Complete and maintain daily, weekly and monthly activity reports and other 
records/information according to current policies, procedures, rules and regulations of the 
University. 
3.17.1.22. Undertake off-campus travel for department and/or university related work or activities as 
directed and approved by the HoD / Directors/ any other compet ent authority of th e 
University. 
3.17.1.23. Perform all other duties, roles, responsibilities and functions that may be entrusted by the 
HoD /Directors /Registrar /Deans /Executive President/ Leadership and Management 
Team of the University from time to time.  
3.18. Hostel Warden 
The duties of Hostel Warden entail day -to-day administration of the hostels and the 
students staying in the hostels of the university. It requires sincerity, dedication and a 
proactive attitude on the part of Hostel Warden to manage the daily administration and 
tackle issues without delay.   The individual will function under the overall supervision of 
the Assistant Registrar in case of Boys Hostel and Administrative Coordinator in case of 
Girls Hostel and assist in the smooth functioning of the hostels of the University. His duties 
will include but not limited to the following:

--- PAGE 50 ---
50 
 
3.18.1 To implement laid-down policies for running of the hostels, messes and 
other facilities within the hostels; 
3.18.2 To ensure that no ragging takes place in the hostels and maintain 
ragging free premises; 
3.18.3 To periodically check the working, discipline, cleanliness and all other 
aspects of general administration of all the hostels of the University; 
3.18.4 To ensure the safety and security of the students;  
3.18.5 To issue out passes for going out to the city or out of the city, after 
obtaining approval from Assistant Registrar for Boys and 
Administrative Coordinator for Girls. 
3.18.6 To plan for up-gradation of facilities in the hostels; 
3.18.7 To ensure maintenance of all equipment and furniture in the hostel. 
3.18.8 To ensure availability of resources viz hot/ drinking water, electricity 
supply etc. and its proper distribution amongst students in the hostel as 
per their needs; 
3.18.9 To carry out liaison with designated/empaneled/nearby hospitals for 
health matters of hostel students; 
3.18.10 To check and certify all the bills pertaining to the mess forwarded by 
the Mess Manager through concerned student counsellor; 
3.18.11 All disciplinary action of hostelites or reward giving action will be finally 
decided by Hostels In-charge;  
3.18.12 To supervise day-to-day activities of the Hostel Staff and provide 
necessary assistance and guidance for smooth functioning of the 
hostel; 
3.18.13 To assist in framing the hostel rules and such other rules on reference 
to him for final decision; 
3.18.14 Any other duty assigned by the management from time to time. 
4. Leave Rules 
4.1. General Rules & Regulations 
4.1.1. Types of Leave:  
The general entitlement of various types of leave to the staff is as under: 
4.1.1.1. Casual Leave (CL).

--- PAGE 51 ---
51 
 
4.1.1.2. Special Casual Leave (SCL). 
4.1.1.3. Duty Leave (DL). 
4.1.1.4. Earned Leave (EL). 
4.1.1.5. Half Pay Leave (HPL). 
4.1.1.6. Commuted Leave (Com.L). 
4.1.1.7. Extra Ordinary Leave (EoL). 
4.1.1.8. Study Leave (SL). 
4.1.1.9. Sabbatical /Academic Leave.   
4.1.1.10. Maternity Leave (ML). 
4.1.1.11. Paternity Leave (PL). 
4.1.1.12. Vacation Leave (VL). 
4.1.1.13. Compensatory Off (CO). 
4.1.1.14. Leave Without Pay (LWP).

--- PAGE 52 ---
52 
 
4.1.2. s to be earned by duty.  
4.1.3. Leave cannot be claimed as a matter of right and when the exigencies of the 
University so demand, leave of any description may be refused or revoked by the 
authority empowered to sanction the leave.  
4.1.4. Accounting period for calculation of leave would be from  1st January to 31st 
December i.e. the Calendar Year. 
4.1.5. Mere submission of leave application in writing will not be deemed that leave has 
been sanctioned. The information of leave  request on phone or email or SMS  or 
through ERP shall not be construed to be submission of leave. A minimum of one-
week notice before proceeding on leave is required for obtaining sanction. During 
this period, all the alternative arrangements shall be made for giving charge to other 
staff members to carry out the duties in his absence. However, in -case of any 
emergency, this notice period can be curtailed depending on the merits of the case. 
4.1.6. During the period of leave, an employee shall not take up or accept any employment 
and work of any nature elsewhere.  
4.1.7. The management reserves the right to recall from leave if the exigencies of work so 
demand and in case of refusal to return, it will be treated as Absence Without Leave 
(AWL).  
4.1.8. All employees will ensure that the Casual Leave application duly sanctioned by the 
leave sanctioning authority is sent to HR Department minimum one day prior to the 
leave date. In case the casual leave is taken on phone/SMS/email etc .; the leave 
application through ERP should reach HR Department within two working days after 
joining the duty; otherwise it will be treated as AWL.         
4.1.9. HOD is the sanctioning authority for CL. 
4.1.10. Any employee availing the EL, HPL, Medical Leave, EOL, Leave Without Pay 
(LWP) will be required to obtain prior sanction of the Executive President/Registrar 
or otherwise the same will be treated as AWL and will construe as Break in Service 
which may lead to either termination of services or re-appointment.  
4.1.11. Earned Leave (EL), Extra Ordinary Leave (EOL) /Medical Leave (ML)/ Half Pay 
Leave (HPL)/ Commuted Leave/ Leave without Pay (LWP) shall be sanctioned by 
Executive President/Registrar after proper scrutiny by HR Department.  
4.1.12. Leave Without Pay (LWP) is absence from duty by an employee without prior 
approval/sanction. This will be treated as break -in service and disciplinary act ion 
may be initiated against the defaulting employee. It may lead to either termination 
of service or re-appointment.   However, in case of adjustment of LWP due to late 
coming/early going, the above will not be applicable. In both the above cases, 
approval of the Registrar/Executive President will be obtained by the HR 
Department before any deduction is made from the salary on account of LWP.

--- PAGE 53 ---
53 
 
4.1.13. Restricted Holidays (RH) can be combined with CL. RH can also be availed on any 
day other than declared holidays wi th the approval of the Executive President, 
based on the merits of the case. 
4.2. Grant of Leave 
Any leave without prior permission or approval of concerned authority would be 
considered as absence from duty and will be treated as Leave Without Pay (LWP). 
In case of emergency, the leave is to be taken over telephone from the concerned 
authority and the request through ERP should be submitted within two days of 
resuming duty through proper channel. 
4.3. Leave Admissible to Staff Members during Probation Period 
Newly appointed employees who are on probation will be entitled to 12 CL in the 
first year of service i.e. 6 CL in the first six months and remaining 6 CL in the next 
six months.  These leaves will be credited on 1st of Jan and 1st of July of the 
respective Calendar Year. However, the number of leaves will be  credited on pro-
rata basis at the rate of one day for each month completed service.  He can start 
availing CL after completion of one month of service. No other leave will be 
admissible during the probation period. During the second year of the probation 
period i.e. if the probation period has been extended, the employee will be  eligible 
for EL, but will not be eligible to avail it. EL will be credited to one’s account and he 
will be able to avail it only after the probation period is closed and service confirmed. 
However, he will continue to avail 12 CL per year till the closure of the probation. 
4.4. Leave Admissible to Permanent Staff Members 
4.4.1. Casual Leave (CL) 
4.4.1.1. All permanent employees who are vacation staff are eligible for 08 days Casual 
Leave in a calendar year.  
4.4.1.2. All permanent employees who are non-vacation staff are eligible for 12 days Casual 
Leave in a calendar year. 
4.4.1.3. A maximum of two days of Casual Leave can  be availed at a time and in a month  
during the semester. 
4.4.1.4. CL will be credited in his account twice in a calendar year i.e. 04 CL in case of 
vacation staff and 06 CL in case of non -vacation staff on 1st of January and 
remaining 04 CL in case of vacation staff and 06 CL in case of non -vacation staff 
on 1st of July of the respective year. However, more than 04 CL in case of vacation 
staff and 06 CL in case of non -vacation staff can also be sanctioned  as a special 
case by the Executive President based on the merits of the case. 
4.4.1.5. CL cannot be accumulated and it will lapse at the end of the Calendar Year.

--- PAGE 54 ---
54 
 
4.4.1.6. CL may also be availed for half a day either in the morning session or in the 
afternoon session on any working day. 
4.4.1.7. CL cannot be clubbed with any other kind of leave except RH. 
4.4.1.8. CL can be combined with Holidays or Sundays.  
4.4.1.9. Sundays/Holidays falling between two CL will not be counted as part of CL. 
4.4.1.10. The Reporting Officer is the leave sanctioning authority.  
4.4.2. Special Casual Leave (SCL) 
Special Casual Leave, not exceeding 10 days in an academic year, may be granted 
to a staff member for the following:  
4.4.2.1 To conduct examination of a university/PSC/Board of Examination or other similar 
bodies/institutes when detailed by the university and to inspect academic institution 
attached to statutory boards/bodies. 
4.4.2.2 To undergo sterilization operation (Vasectomy or Sal pingectomy) under family planning 
programme. Leave in this case will be restricted to six days. 
4.4.2.3 To undergo non-puerperal sterilization by a female employee. Leave in this case will be 
restricted to six days.  
4.4.2.4 SCL cannot be carried forward nor accumulated for encashment. 
4.4.3. Duty Leave (DL) 
Duty Leave not exceeding 15 working days in a semester may be granted for the following 
purposes:  
4.4.3.1 Attending conferences /congresses /symposia /seminars /workshops/visit to companies 
to monitor IDPs and any other activities of similar nature relevant to the branch/discipline 
of the subjects of the faculty, on behalf of the University or where invitations are accepted 
with the prior approval of the University. 
4.4.3.2 Delivering lectures in institutions and universities at the invitat ion of such institutions or 
universities which have been received by the University and    accepted by the Executive 
President. 
4.4.3.3 Undertaking field work in India or abroad relevant to the branch/discipline of the subjects 
of the faculty.  
4.4.3.4 The duration of leave should be such as may be considered necessary by the sanctioning 
authority on each occasion. 
4.4.3.5 Employees going out of campus for official work related to University for a short duration 
during the day.  
4.4.3.6 A faculty will be treated as on duty (and not requiring duty leave) and consequently the 
restriction of 15 working days in a semester shall not apply in the following cases: 
4.4.3.7 Working in another Indian or a Foreign University, any other agency, institution or 
organization when so deputed by the University, or for performing any other duty for the 
University.

--- PAGE 55 ---
55 
 
4.4.3.8 Working as a member of a delegation or committee appointed by the UGC, Universities 
or any other academic or public body. 
4.4.3.9 Deputation abroad under cultural/bilateral exchange programme in which it is a condition 
that the teacher deputed will have to go on duty leave. 
4.4.3.10 Leave may be granted on full pay provided that if the teacher receives a fellowship or 
honorarium or any other financial assistance beyond the amount needed for normal 
expenses, he may be sanctioned duty leave on reduced/nil pay and allowances by the 
Executive President. 
4.4.3.10.1 Duty Leave may be combined with Earned Leave, Half Pay Leave or 
Extraordinary Leave.  
4.4.3.11 Duty Leave may either be prefixed or suffixed with vacation leave.  
4.4.3.12 Duty Leave cannot be accumulated nor is it encashable.  
4.4.3.13 Duty leave cannot be carried forward nor accumulated.

--- PAGE 56 ---
56 
 
4.4.4. eave Earned by Duty  
4.4.4.1. Earned Leave (EL)  
4.4.4.1.1. Earned Leave admissible to all the Teaching Staff shall be 1/30th of actual 
service (Deducting 8 weeks of  vacation period, the year has   remaining 44 
weeks i.e. 44x7 = 308 days. EL for this period will be   308/30 = 10.23 i.e. 10 
days plus 1/3rd of the period, if any, during   which he is required to perform duty 
during vacation).  
4.4.4.1.2. Earned Leave admissible for all Non-Teaching Staff, whose probation is closed, 
shall be 30 days for each completed year of service. 
4.4.4.1.3. In the case of employees who are in the second year of probation, the Earned 
Leave will be credited to his account but cannot be availed in probation period. 
However, the accumulated EL can be availed after the closure of probation 
period. 
4.4.4.1.4. In normal circumstances, the approval for Earned Leave (EL) should be 
obtained through proper channel and reach to the HR Dept., 10 days in advance 
through ERP. However, in case of emergency or exigency, the time frame can 
be reduced at the sole discretion of the Competent Leave Sanctioning Authority. 
4.4.4.1.5. Any Public Holidays, Sundays falling in-between would be considered as part of 
EL/EOL/HPL/LWP. 
4.4.4.1.6. Any declared Holiday or Sunday can be either prefixed or suffixed with the EL.  
4.4.4.1.7. Earned Leave cannot be clubbed with any other leave, except Vacation Leave.  
4.4.4.1.8. Maximum of 300 days EL can be accumulated.  
4.4.4.1.9. EL will be credited to the leave account on half-yearly basis but can be availed 
on pro-rata monthly basis. 
4.4.4.1.10. EL of the employees on probation will be credited to their leave   account after 
their first year on probation but can be availed only after getting confirmation of 
their service. 
4.4.4.1.11. Earned Leave can be encashed at the time of retirement of the employee or 
when he leaves the organisation after completing all exit formalities. A maximum 
of 300 days encashment is permissible only if the employee retires on 
superannuation from the university. In case, an employee leaves service on his 
own accord, maximum encashed leave is limited to 150 days.  
4.4.4.2. Half Pay Leave (HPL) 
4.4.4.2.1. Half Pay Leave admissible to permanent employees shall be 20 days for each 
completed year of service. Such leave may be granted on the basis of medical 
grounds/for private affairs. 
4.4.4.2.2. Half Pay Leave will be credited in advance in two instalments of 10 days each 
on the 1st day of January & July of every calendar year. 
4.4.4.2.3. However, in case of new appointees, the leave shall be credited to   the said 
leave account at the rate of 5/3 days  for each completed calendar month of 
service of the year in which the staff member is   appointed. Such emplo yees 
can avail the HPL credited to their account only after getting confirmation of their 
service.

--- PAGE 57 ---
57 
 
4.4.4.2.4. A maximum of 60 days HPL can be accumulated or carried forward but it cannot 
be encashed.  
4.4.4.2.5. HPL can be clubbed as a prefix or suffix with Holidays/Sundays. 
4.4.4.2.6. HPL can be taken only for one full day at a time. 
4.4.4.3. Commuted Leave 
Commuted Leave, not exceeding half the amount of Half Pay Leave due, may 
be granted on the basis of a medical certificate from the registered medical 
practitioner to a permanent employee subject to the following conditions:  
HPL can be commuted only for the purpose of any medical reason i.e. two (2) 
HPL can be commuted to one full pay leave on medical   grounds only.

--- PAGE 58 ---
58 
 
4.4.4.3.1. HPL can be granted on medical ground subject to production of   Medical 
Certificate and the Fitness Certificate from a qualified    Registered  Medical 
Practitioners at the time of resuming duty.  However, for two days Commuted 
Leave (i.e. four HPL), medical certificate will not be required. 
4.4.4.3.2. The University has a right to examine the employee ’s documents who have 
availed/are availing medical leave through its panel doctor. If the employee refuses 
to submit to such an examination or is found fit on such examination for duty, the 
university may cancel the HPL and appropriate administrative /disciplinary action 
will be taken against him.  
4.4.4.3.3. Commuted Leave during the entire service shall be limited to a     maximum of 240 
days. 
4.4.4.3.4. The total duration of Earned Leave and Commuted Leave taken in conjunction 
shall not exceed 240 days at a time, provided that no Commuted Lea ve shall be 
granted under these rules unless the competent authority to sanction leave has 
reason to believe that the   teacher will return to duty on its expiry. 
 
4.4.5. Leave Not Earned by Duty 
4.4.5.1. Extraordinary Leave (EOL) 
4.4.5.1.1. A permanent employee may be granted Extraordinary Leave when:   
4.4.5.1.1.1. No other leave is admissible. 
4.4.5.1.1.2. The employee applies in writing for the grant of Extraordinary Leave. 
4.4.5.1.2. Extraordinary Leave shall always be without pay and allowances.Extraordinary 
Leave shall not count for increment except in the following cases:  
4.4.5.1.2.1. Leave is taken on the basis of medical certificate. 
4.4.5.1.2.2. Cases where the Executive President is satisfied that the leave was taken due to 
causes beyond the control of the staff member, such as inability to join or rejoin 
duty due to civil unrest or a natural calamity, provided the employee has no other 
kind of leave to his credit. 
4.4.5.1.2.3. Leave taken for pursuing higher studies. 
4.4.5.1.2.4. Leave granted to accept an invitation to a teaching post or fellowship or research-
cum-teaching post or on assignment for technical or academic work of importance.  
4.4.5.1.3. Extraordinary Leave may be combined with any other leave except  Casual Leave 
and Special Casual Leave, provided that the total  period of continuous absence 
from duty on leave (including periods of vacation when such vacation is taken in 
conjunction with leave) shall not exceed three years except in cases where leave 
is taken on   medical certificate. The total period of absence from duty shall in no 
case exceed five years in the full working life of the individual with the university. 
4.4.6. Leave Not Due

--- PAGE 59 ---
59 
 
4.4.6.1. Leave Not Due may, at the discretion of the Executive President, be granted to a 
permanent employee for a period not exceeding 360 days during the entire period 
of service, out of which not more than 90 days at a time and 180 days in all may 
be availed, other than on medical certificate. Such leave shall be debited against 
the Half-Pay Leave earned by him subsequently. 
4.4.6.2. Leave Not Due shall not be granted unless the Executive President is satisfied that 
as far as can reasonably be foreseen, the employee will return to duty on the expiry 
of the leave and earn the leave granted. 
4.4.6.3. An employee to whom ‘Leave Not Due’ is granted shall not be permitted to tender 
his registration from service so long as the debit balance in his leave account is 
not wiped off by active service, or he refunds the amount paid to  him as pay and 
allowances for the period not so earned.  
 
 
In case where retirement is unavoidable on account of reason of ill health, 
incapacitating the teacher for further service, refund of leave salary for the period 
of leave still to be earned may be waived off by the management. 
4.4.6.4. Provided further that the management may, in any other exceptional case, waive 
off, for reasons to be recorded, the refund of salary of leave for the period of leave 
still to be earned 
4.4.7. Leave Not Debited to Leave Account  
This covers leave taken for academic pursuits.  
4.4.7.1. Study Leave 
4.4.7.1.1. Study leave may be granted after a minimum of 3 years of continuous service, to 
pursue a special line of study or resea rch directly related to his work in the 
University or to make a special study of various aspects of University/organization 
and   methods of education.  
4.4.7.1.2. The paid period of study leave should be for 3 years, but 2 years   may be given 
in the first instance, extendable by one more year, if there is adequate progress 
as reported by the Guide. Care should be taken that the number of teachers given 
study leave, does not exceed the 10(ten) percent of teachers in any department. 
Provided that management may, in special circumstances of a particular case, 
waive the condition of three years’ service being continuous.  
4.4.7.1.3. In computing the length of service, the time during which a person was on 
probation or engaged as a research assistant may be reckoned provided:  
4.4.7.1.3.1. The person is a teacher on the date of the application; and  
4.4.7.1.3.2. There is no break in service.

--- PAGE 60 ---
60 
 
4.4.7.1.4. Study Leave should be granted by the management on the recommendations of 
the Director and Executive President. The leave shall not be granted for more than 
three years in one spell, except in very special cases, where the management is 
satisfied that such extension is unavoidable on academic grounds and necessary 
in the interests of the University.  
4.4.7.1.5. Study Leave shall not be granted to a teacher who is due to retire within five years 
of the date on which he is expected to retu rn to duty after the expiry of Study 
Leave.  
4.4.7.1.6. Study Leave may be granted only twice during one’s career. However, the 
maximum period of Study Leave admissible during the entire service should not 
exceed three years.  
4.4.7.1.7. No teacher who has been granted Study Leave shall be permitted to alter 
substantially the course of study or the programme of research without the 
permission of the management. When the course of study falls short of Study 
Leave sanctioned, the teacher shall resume duty on the conclusion of the course 
of study unless the previous approval of the management to treat the period of 
shortfall as ordinary leave has been obtained.  
4.4.7.1.8. Subject to the provisions of sub -clauses (4.4.7.1.9) and ( 4.4.7.1.10) below, the 
Study Leave may be granted on full pay up to two years extendable by one year 
at the discretion of the management of the university. 
4.4.7.1.9. The amount of scholarship, fellowship or other financial assistance that a teacher 
granted Study Leave has been awarded will not preclude his being granted Study 
Leave with pay and allowances, but the scholarship etc. so received shall be taken 
into account in determining the pay and allowance on which the Study Leave may 
be granted. The foreign scholarship/fellowship would be offset against pay only if 
the fellowship is above the specified amount,  
which is to be determined from time to time, based on the cost of living for a family 
in the country in which the study is to be undertaken. In case of an Indian 
fellowship, which exceeds the salary of the teacher, the salary would be forfeited. 
4.4.7.1.10. Subject to the maximum period of absence from duty on leave not exceeding three 
years, Study Leave may be combined with Earned  Leave, Half-Pay Leave, 
Extraordinary Leave or Vacation Leave, provided that the Earned Leave at the 
credit of the teacher shall be   availed of at the discretion of the teacher. A teacher 
who is selected to a higher post during Study Leave will be placed in that position 
and get the higher scale only after resuming the duties.

--- PAGE 61 ---
61 
 
4.4.7.1.11. A faculty granted Study Leave shall on his return and re-joining the service of the 
University shall be eligible to the benefits of the annual increments which he would 
have earned in the course of time if he had not proceeded on Study Leave i.e. the 
increments will be notional. No teacher shall   however, be eligible to receive 
arrears of increments. 
4.4.7.1.12. Study Leave shall be counted as service for Contributory Provident Fund, provided 
the teacher joins the University on the expiry of his Study Leave.  
4.4.7.1.13. Study Leave granted to a teacher shall be deemed to be cancelled in case it is not 
availed of within 12 months of sanction, provided that where Study Leave granted 
has been so cancelled, the teacher may apply again for such leave. 
4.4.7.1.14. A teacher availing Study Leave shall undertake that he shall serve the University 
for a continuous period of at least three years to be calculated from the date of his 
resuming duty after expiry of the Study Leave.  
4.4.7.1.15. After the leave has been sanctioned, the teacher shall, before  availing himself of 
the leave, execute a bond in favor of the University, binding himself for the due 
fulfilment to the conditions laid down in sub -clauses above and give security of 
immovable property to the satisfaction of the CFAO or a fidelity bond of an 
insurance company or a guarantee by a scheduled bank for the amount which 
might become refundable to the University in accordance with sub clauses above. 
If and when required, CFAO will make  arrangements to recover the balance 
portion of amount. 
4.4.7.1.16. The teacher shall submit to the Registrar, six monthly reports of   progress in his 
studies from his Supervisor or the Head of Institution. This report shall reach the 
Registrar within one month of th e expiry of every six months of the Study Leave.  
If the report does not reach the Registrar within the specified time, the payment of 
leave salary may be deferred till the receipt of such report. This will be applicable 
even if a faculty is on full scholarship. 
4.4.7.1.17. On re-joining after Study Leave, the individual shall submit certificate/mark sheet 
of the course for which the study was approved initially. In case the individual is 
unable to successfully complete the course/program for which approval was taken, 
the individual is liable to refund the salary for the entire period of Study Leave the 
individual has been away and the period shall be treated as LWP.  If the faculty 
was on any further type of paid leave from the university, he will not be granted 
any type of p aid leave by the university during the stay in the university. If the 
faculty received a fellowship from any agency, the rules/regulations of that agency 
in such cases will be followed. 
4.4.7.2. Sabbatical Leave/Academic Leave

--- PAGE 62 ---
62 
 
4.4.7.2.1. Permanent, whole -time teachers of the University who have completed seven 
years of service as Assistant Professor, Associate Professor or Professor, may be 
granted Sabbatical Leave to undertake study or research or other academic 
pursuits solely for the ob ject of increasing their proficiency and usefulness to the 
University and the higher education system.  
4.4.7.2.2. The duration of leave shall not exceed one year at a time and two years in the 
entire career of a teacher with the university. 
4.4.7.2.3. A teacher who has availed  of Study Leave would not be entitled to Sabbatical 
Leave until after the expiry of five years from the date of the teacher’s return from 
previous study leave or any other kind of training programme.  
4.4.7.2.4. A teacher shall, during the period of Sabbatical Leave,  be paid full pay and 
allowances (subject to the prescribed conditions being fulfilled ) at the rate 
applicable to him immediately prior to his proceeding on Sabbatical Leave. 
4.4.7.2.5. After the leave has been sanctioned, the teacher shall, before availing himself of 
the leave, execute a bond in favour of the University, binding himself for the due 
fulfilment to the   conditions laid down in sub -clauses above and give security of 
immovable property to the satisfaction of the CFAO or a fidelity bond of an 
insurance company or a guarantee by a scheduled bank for the amount which 
might become refundable to the University in accordance with sub clauses above. 
If and when required, CFAO will m ake arrangements to recover the balance 
portion of amount. 
4.4.7.2.6. A teacher on Sabbatical Leave shall not take up during the period of that leave, 
any regular appointment under another institution/ university/organization in India 
or abroad. He may, however be al lowed to accept a fellowship or a research 
scholarship or adhoc teaching and research assignment with honorarium or any 
other form of assistance, other than regular employment in an institute of advanced 
studies, provided that in such cases the management may, if it so desires, sanction 
Sabbatical Leave on reduced pay and allowances.  
4.4.7.2.7. During the period of Sabbatical Leave, the teacher shall be allowed to draw the 
increment on the due date. The period of leave shall also count as service for 
purposes of cont ributory provident fund, provided that the teacher re -joins the 
University on expiry of his leave.  
4.4.7.2.8. A teacher availing Sabbatical Leave shall undertake that he shall serve the 
University for a continuous period equal to the period of sabbatical leave to be  
calculated from the date of his resuming duty after expiry of the Leave.  
4.4.7.2.9. The programme to be followed during Sabbatical Leave shall be submitted to the 
University for approval along with the application for grant of leave before 
proceeding on leave.

--- PAGE 63 ---
63 
 
4.4.7.2.10. On r eturn from leave, the teacher shall report to the University the nature of 
studies, research or other work undertaken during the period of leave.  
4.4.8. Leave on Grounds of Health 
4.4.8.1. Maternity Leave 
4.4.8.1.1. l female teaching and non -teaching staff will be eligible for Maternity Leave for a 
total duration of 180  days (45 days before delivery and 135 days after delivery), 
provided (i) the probation period is closed; and (ii) they have completed 3 years of 
physical service after closure of probation in the university. During this period, the 
staff will be entitled to normal pay and allowances.  
4.4.8.1.2. An employee wishing to avail the benefit of Maternity Leave is required to get the 
leave sanctioned one month in advance and produce/submit the Doctor’s 
Certificate for the expected date of delivery and a copy of birth certificate after the 
delivery. 
4.4.8.1.3. In case of miscarriage, abortion, stillborn child or death of a child, only 7 days’ 
leave would be granted to the employee from the date of incidence as per the 
eligibility criteria mentioned above, subject to production of medical documents. 
4.4.8.1.4. The employee can proceed on Maternity Leave only 45 days before the date of 
delivery. Any absence before 45 days of expected date of delivery will be 
considered as LWP.  
4.4.8.1.5. Maternity Leave cannot be clubbed with any other leave.  
4.4.8.1.6. Maternity Leave can be availed twice in the entire career of the employee. If one 
already has two children, then maternity leave shall not be granted. There should 
be a gap of 3 years between two maternities. 
4.4.8.1.7. If availing maternit y leave, then casual and vacation leaves will not be granted 
during the maternity leave period. Only Earned Leave can be availed after 
maternity leave, if required.   
4.4.8.1.8. Employees on maternity leave will not be eligible for increment in their turn as per 
the university policy. 
4.4.8.2. Paternity Leave 
4.4.8.2.1. 08 (eight) days of paid Paternity Leave can be granted to all male teaching and 
non-teaching staff members provided (i) the probation period is closed; and (ii) 
they have completed 3 years of physical service after closure of probation in the 
university.  
4.4.8.2.2. This can be availed twice in the entire career of the individual.  If one already has 
two children, paternity leave shall not be granted.   
4.4.8.2.3. The Paternity Leave would require to be availed in a single stretch i .e. on a 
continuous basis but can be utilized within 30 days of the time from the date of the 
birth of a baby. A copy of birth certificate of a baby will be required to be submitted 
along with the application to avail the benefit of Paternity Leave. 
4.4.9. Vacation Leave 
4.4.9.1. he university will give a total of 06  weeks’ Vacation Leave during the academic 
year to the teaching staff.  However, not more than 4 weeks of leave can be 
physically availed. The balance leave will be credited to the EL Account @ 1  EL 
per three days of non -availed vacation leave. 
4.4.9.2. Vacation Leave can be granted only during vacation period declared by the 
University/Institute.

--- PAGE 64 ---
64 
 
4.4.9.3. The duration and dates of winter and summer vacation period will be notified by 
the University.  
4.4.9.4. The Vacation Leave shall require to be sanctioned in advance in writing, as for any 
other leave.  
4.4.9.5. Vacation Leave cannot be combined with any leave except Earned Leave.  
4.4.9.6. Like Earned Leave, Vacation Leave shall first be earned.  
4.4.9.7. Faculty on probation are not eligible for vacation leave till closure of probation.  
4.4.9.8. Vacation/Non-Vacation Staff  
4.4.9.8.1.  Vacation Staff  
4.4.9.8.1.1. All Faculty Members and HoDs 
4.4.9.8.2.    Non-Vacation Staff   
4.4.9.8.2.1. Laboratory In-charge/ Instructor / Assistant of the University  
4.4.9.8.2.2. Non-teaching Non-Technical Staff of the University  
4.4.9.8.2.3. Administrative Staff of the University  
4.4.9.8.2.4. Directors, Registrars, Deans, Executive President and other office bearers of 
the University. 
4.4.10. Compensatory Off (CO) 
Attendance on Sundays, holidays or working before or beyond office hours justify 
the grant of compensatory off against performing the official duties duly assigned 
related                                                                                                         
with any academic/administrative work by the staff members as per the details 
given below: 
4.4.10.1. One Half Day Compensatory Off (HCO) will be given to the staff members for 
performing duty for more than four hours but less than 7 hours. 
4.4.10.2. Two HCO will be granted to the staff members for performing duty for more than 
7 hours.  
4.4.10.3. The accumulated COs can be availed only for half day maximum on any single 
working day.  
4.4.10.4. Not more than two COs are allowed to be availed in succession.  
4.4.10.5. CO by the teaching/laboratory staff can be availed without affecting the academic 
activities during the same calendar year with the permission of the Head of 
Department (Recommending Authority) and Director (Sanctioning Authority); the 
non-teaching staff members can avail CO with the permission of the Reporting 
Officer. 
4.4.10.6. The attendance in such cases should be under the orders of the Reporting Officer 
(RO). Prior approval needs to be taken from the RO with a copy forwarded to HR.

--- PAGE 65 ---
65 
 
4.4.10.7. CO will not be granted to employees who are required to attend office as a result 
of penalty imposed on him  or who are required to complete their task/complete 
documentation for which he is personally responsible.  
4.4.10.8. Staff members can also avail this facility for going early before the closing of office 
hours but cannot avail it for coming late in the morning as reporting at   8.20 A.M. 
is mandatory. CO will not be adjusted against coming late and normal leave rules 
will be applied for late arrival. 
4.4.10.9. The accumulated compensatory off shall be used before the end of the calendar 
year (January-December) and shall lapse at the end of the year. It also cannot 
be encashed.  
4.4.10.10. The Executive President can waive-off one or more conditions stipulated above 
as a special case, if required in the interests of the university. 
4.5. Leave Management System 
HRMS (Establishment) Management System module available in ERP software of 
MASTERSOFT ERP Solutions Pvt. Ltd., is currently, being used in the university. 
This module caters for Leave Management System for all types of leave, 
recruitment, selection, probation, confirmation, resignation / retirement of all the 
staff. It also caters for the Pay Roll Management System. E xhaustive user 
instructions are available in the ERP regarding all the above. It is expected that all 
the staff use the applicable modules for the HR related issues so as to reduce the 
dependence on paper work, decrease the processing time and increase the  
effectiveness of the system thereby improving the satisfaction of the employees. 
All the staff of the university are the users of these modules. 
Process: All leave requests are processed through the Leave module of the ERP. 
Before applying for leave, employees are expected to check the eligibility for leave 
request and present leave balance. The details of officials authorized to sanction 
various types of leave are available in the ERP. The status of leave request can 
be checked by the employees through the ERP portal.

--- PAGE 66 ---
66 
 
5. TA & DA Policy 
5.1. Travel Arrangement & Advance Procedure 
5.1.1. Traveling Allowance and daily allowance are intended to cover the out -of-pocket 
expenses, which an employee has to incur while traveling and during hal ts at out-
stations on university /any other official duty. 
5.1.2. No employee can travel on official duty without a proper tour programme and Travel 
Approval Form (TAF) being approved by the competent authority.  
5.1.3. Independent Travel Approval Form has to be raised for each individual touring, even 
if the group comprises a number of persons.  
5.1.4. Normally, tour approval has to be raised minimum five working days in advance, to 
enable the accounts department to release the advance. 
5.1.5. In case a trip is cancelled, the employee should immediately refund the full amount 
of travel advance to accounts department and arrange to cancel his ticket by 
intimating the administration department. Charges for cancellations done for official 
reasons shall be reimbursed. 
5.1.6. While planning a tour, return tickets at reduced rates or any other travel concession 
in force should be availed of, wherever possible. The services of authorized travel 
agent of the university will be availed wherever possible.  
5.1.7. In case of travel under own ar rangements, claims without pre -approved Tour 
Approval Form will not be entertained. 
5.1.8. Tours should be undertaken by most economical mode of travel and by the shortest 
route, keeping in mind that the time spent in journey least affects the working hours. 
5.1.9. Employees will be entitled to traveling allowance as admissible in the University’s 
Tours & Travel Rules as given in this chapter. 
5.2. Names of the Cities covered under different categories: 
‘A-1’ cities  : Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata 
 
‘A’ cities  : Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Bangalore 
 
‘B’ cities  : Surat, Vadodara, Indore, Bhopal, Pune, Nagpur, Ludhiana, Jaipur, 
Lucknow,            
                           Kanpur 
5.2.1. Eligibility Criteria for Travelling Allowance  
Pay Scale & AGP 
Transport allowance by 
air or by train 
whichever is lower 
Rate for Road Mileage 
37,400-67,000 with AGP 
10000 and above 
Air economy (i.e. ‘Y’) 
class by national carrier 
or AC-I class by train at 
their option 
Prepaid taxi/car/Rs 8 per km up to 50 kms 
in the city with the prior approval of the 
authority. This may require a periodic 
revision.

--- PAGE 67 ---
67 
 
37400-67000 with  AGP 
8900 and 9000  
AC II class by train Prepaid taxi/car/Rs 8 per km up to 50 kms 
in the city with the prior approval of the 
authority. This may require a periodic 
revision. 
15600-39100 with AGP 
6000-8000;7600 & 6600; 
37400-67000 with AGP 
8700 
AC II Tier sleeper/ 
Executive Class AC 
Chair Car 
Prepaid taxi/car/Rs 8 per km up to 50 kms 
in the city with the prior approval of the 
authority. This may require a periodic 
revision. 
9300-34800 with AGP 
4200-5400   
15600-39100 with AGP 
5400 
First Class / AC III Tier 
Sleeper / AC Chair Car  
Prepaid taxi/car/Rs 8 per km up to 50 kms 
in the city with the prior approval of the 
authority, any public bus / AC bus. This 
may require a periodic revision. 
4440-7440 with AGP 
1300, 1400 & 1650 
5200-20,200 with AGP 
1800, 1900, 2000, 2400 & 
2800 
Second Sleeper Class Prepaid Auto Rickshaw / Scooter Rs. 
2/Km. charges & up to 50 kms in the city 
with the prior approval of the authority, in 
any public bus. This may require a 
periodic revision. 
5.2.2. Eligibility Criteria for Accommodation & Food Bill allowance 
Pay scale & Grade pay 
Hotel Accommodation Per 
Day 
Food Bill Per Day 
37,400-67,000 AGP 10000 and 
above 
5,000 500 
37400-67000 with AGP 8900 & 
9000 
3000 300 
15600-39100 with AGP 6000-
8000, 7600 & 6600 
37400-67000 with AGP 8700 
1500 300 
9300-34800 with AGP 4200-5400; 
15600-39100 with AGP 5400.  
1300 300 
4440-7440 with AGP 1300, 1400 
& 1650 
5200-20,200 with AGP 1800, 
1900, 2000, 2400 & 2800 
1000 250 
 
5.2.3. Eligibility Criteria for Daily Allowance 
When the employee stays in a hotel or other establishment providing boarding and 
/ or lodging at scheduled tariffs as given below: 
Daily Allowance: 
When the Employee stays in Guest House or makes his own arrangements. 
Pay Scale and Types of Cities

--- PAGE 68 ---
68 
 
Grade pay A-1 Class 
Cities 
A Class Cities B Class Cities Other Cities 
37400-67000 AGP 
10,000 & above 
260 210 170 135 
37400-67000 AGP 
8900 & 9000  
230 185 150 120 
15600-39100 AGP 
6600, 7600 & 
6000-8000 
37400-67000 with 
AGP 8700 
200 160 130 105 
15600-39100 AGP 
5400 
170 135 110 90 
9300-34800 AGP 
5400 
165 125 100 80 
9300-34800 AGP 
4600 
155 115 90 70 
9300-34800 AGP 
4400 
145 100 80 60 
9300-34800 AGP 
4200 
135 90 70 50 
5200-20200 AGP 
1800 -2800  
4440-7400 with 
AGP 1300, 1400 
&1650 
125 80 60 40 
Note:  
‘A-1’ 
Cities: 
Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata 
‘A’ Cities: Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Bangalore 
‘B’ Cities: Surat, Vadodara, Indore, Bhopal, Pune, Nagpur, Ludhiana, Jaipur, Lucknow,        
Kanpur

--- PAGE 69 ---
69 
 
5.2.4. Transport Allowance for Local Journeys 
5.2.4.1. The bus / rail fare / mileage allowance for local journeys should be based on the 
actual distance travelled or the distance between the normal duty point and 
temporary duty point, whichever is less. 
5.2.4.2. If provided with conveyance free of charge, only DA will be admissible.  
5.2.4.3. Rate of Road Mileage. Actual fare will be paid for travel by public bus. Mileage 
allowance Rs. 8 per KM for cars, Rs. 2.75 per KM for two wheelers, and Rs. 1.20 
per KM will be admissible for journey by bicycle. The eligibility will be linked to the 
AGP as per detailed given at Table 5.2.1 above.  
5.3. Tour Reports 
5.3.1. After completion of the tour/ visit, a summary report of the same should be 
submitted to the immediate superior within 3 working days of return from tour.  
5.3.2. The report should cover the purpose and accomplishments of the tour as well as 
follow-up action required thereafter. 
5.4. Travel Expenses Claim & Settlement 
5.4.1. All Tour expenses settlement should be submitted within 5 days of return from the 
tour. In case of a genuine acceptable constraint, maximum of one advance pending 
will be allowed.  
5.4.2. The settlement will be forwarded through the Head of Institute / Director / Head of 
the Department and it will be regularized only after receiving the relevant supporting 
documents/bills.  
5.4.3. All claims will be accounted and cleared fortnightly i.e. twice in a month. Excess 
claims will be settled by accounts department.  
5.4.4. Shortage has to be settled by the employee by cash/cheque, failing which the same 
will be recovered from the immediate monthly salary. 
5.4.5. If any expenses incurred by the employee is above his eligibility, the necessary 
justification and approvals will be taken from the Registrar/ Executive President. 
5.4.6. For (T&P /Marketing Personnel) 
5.4.6.1. Regular travel expenses of the field employees can be submitted once in 15 days. 
5.4.6.2. The same will be ratified and credited in the respective bank accounts within next 
15 days’ subject to the receipt of supporting documents/bills. 
5.4.6.3. Local conveyance charges can be claimed once in a week, which will  also be 
credited once in 15 days.

--- PAGE 70 ---
70 
 
6. Recruitment 
6.1. The categories of staff are the following: 
6.1.1. Teaching Staff 
6.1.2. Non-Teaching Staff 
6.1.3. Administrative Staff 
6.1.4. Administrative Support Staff 
6.2. Recruitment of Teaching Staff 
6.2.1. General Guidelines 
The direct recruitment to the posts of Assistant Professors, Associate 
Professors, Professors and adjunct/visiting faculty in the Universities/Institutes 
shall be on the basis of merit through advertisement in local / national dailies 
as stipulated and Internet followed by selection by  the duly constituted 
Selection Committees as prescribed by the UGC/AICTE/CoA or 
Statutes/Ordinances of Indus University or other regulatory bodies as 
applicable and as amended from time to time.  A Proforma for calculating API 
for the Post of Assistant Pro fessor, Associate Professor and Professor under 
Direct recruitment is at Appendix A. The guidelines also contain details of 
constitution of selection committees and selection procedure. Currently, the 
following regulations are in force: 
6.2.1.1. UGC: University Grants Commission (Minimum Qualifications for Appointment 
of Teachers and Other Academic Staff in Universities and Colleges and Other 
Measures for The Maintenance of Standards in Higher Education) Regulations, 
2010 and Amendments 1, 2, 3 & 4 of  2016. Reference may also be made to 
UGC “Guidelines for Empanelment of Adjunct Faculty in Universities and 
Colleges dated 29 April 2015.” 
6.2.1.2. AICTE: Revised Pay-Scales, Service Conditions, and Qualifications for the 
Teachers and Other Academic Staff in Techni cal Institutions (Degree & 
Diploma) Regulation 2010 and Amendment dated 4th January 2016. A 
reference may also be made to Annexure 13 of AICTE Approval Process 
Handbook 2019 for “Guidelines for Appointment of Adjunct Faculty/Resource 
Persons from Industry in AICTE Approved Technical Institutions. 
6.2.1.3. CoA:  Council of Architecture Regulations 1983

--- PAGE 71 ---
71 
 
6.2.2. Minimum Qualifications for Appointment of Teaching Faculty in University : As a 
rule, the recruitment of faculty in various institutes will be made to the posts of Assistant 
Professor, Associate professor and Professor asper the guidelines of UGC/AICTE/CoA, 
etc.  However, whenever there is an acute shortage of qualified faculty for recruitment, in 
exceptional cases, university may make appointments at the following l evels as a one -
time measure till qualified faculty will be available. 
 
6.2.2.1. Academic Associate   
   Diploma with 1st Class or B.Sc. with 1st Class 
6.2.2.2. Assistant Lecturer  
   Fresher B.E. with First Class or M.Sc. with First Class  
6.2.2.3. Lecturer * 
B.E. with 1st Class with valid GATE score of minimum 75% or M.Sc. with 1st class with 
valid NET score and at least 2 years of experience as Assistant Lecturer / Industry. 
*With a condition that, if he does not complete M. Tech for a B.E. candidate and Ph.D. for 
a M.Sc. candidate within 5 years, his increment will be stopped. 
6.2.3. Selection Committees and Guidelines on Selection Procedures 
           The UGC /AICTE has evolved the guidelines on Constitution o f Screening-cum- 
Evaluation Committee/ Selection Committees for selection of Assistant Professor, 
Associate Professor, Professor, and Selection Procedures for Direct Recruitment and 
Career Advancement Schemes (CAS). This will be followed.  
6.3. Norms of Recruitment for Teaching, Non -Teaching, Admin & Admin Support 
Staff 
The norms for direct recruitment for teaching, non-teaching, admin and admin support 
staff are given below. The qualifications and experience required for each post and the 
scale and grade pay at entry level are also given below:  
A. Recruitment Norms of Teaching Staff 
Cadre/Designation Qualification  & 
Experience 
Scale at 
Entry 
Level 
Grade Pay 
at Entry 
Level 
Pay 
Band 
Academic Associate 
 
Diploma with First Class or 
B.Sc. first class  
5200-
20200 
2800 PB - I 
Assistant Lecturer 
 
Fresher B.E. with First 
Class Or M.Sc. with First 
Class  
9300-
34800 
4200 PB - II 
Lecturer  
 
B.E. with First Class with 
valid GATE Score of 
minimum 75% Or M.Sc. 
with First Class with valid 
NET Score and at least 2 
9300-
34800 
5400 PB-II

--- PAGE 72 ---
72 
 
years of experience as 
Assistant Lecturer / in 
Industry 
B. Recruitment of Laboratory Instructor/ Technician 
 
Cadre Qualification & 
Experience 
Scale at Entry 
Level 
Grade Pay at 
Entry Level 
Pay Band 
Jr. Laboratory Instructor/ Technician/Workshop Attendant  
Grade I 
ITI  Fresher 
4440-7440 1300 1S  
Grade II 
ITI with 2 years’ experience 
4440-7440 1400 1S 
Grade III 
ITI with 5 years’ experience 
4440-7440 1650 1S 
Laboratory Assistant/Senior Laboratory Instructor/Laboratory Demonstrator  
Grade I Diploma Fresher or ITI with 
3 years’ experience as 
Laboratory Instructor  
5200-20200 1800 PB-I 
Grade II Diploma with 3 years’ 
experience or ITI with 6 
years’ experience as 
Laboratory Instructor 
5200-20200 1900 PB-I 
Grade III Diploma with 5 years’ 
experience or ITI with 8 
years’ experience as 
Laboratory Instructor 
5200-20200 2000 PB-I 
Grade IV Diploma with 8 years’ 
experience or ITI with 11 
years’ experience as 
Laboratory Instructor 
5200-20200 2400  PB-I 
Grade V Diploma with 11 years’ 
experience or ITI with 14 
years’ experience as 
Laboratory Instructor 
5200-20200 2800  PB-I 
 
C. Norms for Recruitment of Administrative Staff 
Cadre/ 
Designation 
Qualification  & Experience Scale at Entry 
Level 
Grade Pay at 
Entry Level 
Pay Band 
Attendant / Driver / Gardener / Tradesman / Electrician / Plumber  
Attendant Grade – I 
S.S.C. Pass with 1 year experience in related field  
4440-7440 1300 1S 
 
Driver Grade – I

--- PAGE 73 ---
73 
 
S.S.C Pass with 1 year experience  in related field  
Gardner Grade – I 
Minimum 1 year experience in related field 
Tradesman Grade – I 
S.S.C. Pass with 1 year experience in related field  
Electrician Grade – I  
S.S.C Pass with 1 year experience  in related field  
Plumber Grade – I 
Minimum 1 year experience in related field 
Attendant Grade – II 
S.S.C. Pass with 3 years’ experience in related field  
4440-7440 1400 1S 
Driver Grade – II 
S.S.C. with 3 years’ experience  in related field  
Gardner Grade – II 
Minimum 3 years’ experience in respective field 
Tradesman Grade – II 
S.S.C. Pass with 3 year experience in related field  
Electrician Grade – II  
S.S.C Pass with 3 year experience  in related field  
Plumber Grade – II 
Minimum 3 year experience in related field 
Attendant Grade – III 
S.S.C. Pass with 5 years’ experience in related field  
4440-7440 1650 1S 
Driver Grade-III 
S.S.C. with 5 years’ experience in related field 
Gardner Grade-III 
Minimum 5 years’ experience in respective field 
Tradesman Grade – III 
S.S.C. Pass with 5 year experience in related field  
Electrician Grade – III  
S.S.C Pass with 5 year experience  in related field  
Plumber Grade – III 
Minimum 5 year experience in related field 
Accounts Assistant/ Admin Assistant/Admin Coordinator/Admin Coordinator (IDEA) / Exam Assistant/ 
Purchase Assistant/ Store Assistant/ Library Assistant/ Estate Assistant/ Maintenance Assistant/ 
System Operator/ Technical Assistance/ Jr. Engineer (Maintenance)/ IT Engineer/ Sr. Electrician/  
Assistant Manager(HR)/ T&P Assistant/ Receptionist cum Telephone Operator/ Site Supervisor /Hostel 
Warden 
Grade -
I 
 Accounts Assistant/ 
Admin Assistant/ Admin 
Coordinator / Exam 
Assistant/ Purchase 
Assistant/ Store 
Assistant/ Library 
Assistant/ Estate 
Assistant/ Maintenance 
Assistant/ T&P 
Assistant/ Receptionist-
Graduate in any discipline  
with minimum 55% marks in 
related subject with minimum 1 
year experience in respective 
field  
5200-20200 1800 PB-I

--- PAGE 74 ---
74 
 
cum-Tel. Operator/ 
System 
Operator/Technical 
Assistant  
Site Supervisor  
 
Diploma in related subject with 
minimum 55% marks with 
minimum 1 year experience in 
respective field  
Hostel Warden  
 
Graduate in any discipline  
with minimum 55% marks with 
minimum 1 year experience in 
respective field  
Grade -
II 
Accounts Assistant/ 
Admin Assistant/ Admin 
Coordinator / Exam 
Assistant/ Purchase 
Assistant/ Store 
Assistant/ Library 
Assistant/ Estate 
Assistant/ Maintenance 
Assistant/ T&P 
Assistant/ Receptionist-
cum-Tel. Operator/ Jr. 
Engineer(Maintenance) 
Graduate in any discipline  
in related subject with minimum 
55% marks with minimum 3 
years’ experience in respective 
field  
5200-20200 1900 PB-I 
 
Site Supervisor 
Diploma in related subject with 
minimum 55% marks with 
minimum 3 years’ experience in 
respective field 
Hostel Warden  Graduate in any discipline  
with minimum 55% marks with 
minimum 3 years’ experience in 
respective field

--- PAGE 75 ---
75 
 
Grade - 
III 
Accounts Assistant/ 
Admin Assistant/ Admin 
Coordinator / Exam 
Assistant/ Purchase 
Assistant/ Store 
Assistant/ Library 
Assistant/ Estate 
Assistant/ Maintenance 
Assistant/ T&P 
Assistant/ Receptionist-
cum-Tel. Operator/ 
Assistant Manager 
(HR) 
Graduate in any discipline  
with minimum 55% marks in 
related subject with minimum 6 
years’ experience in respective 
field  
 
 
5200-20200 2000 PB-I 
 
Site Supervisor  Diploma in related subject with 
minimum 55% marks with 
minimum 6 years’ experience in 
respective field  
 
Hostel Warden  
Graduate in any discipline  
with minimum 55% marks with 
minimum 6 years’ experience in 
respective field 
Grade -
IV
  
Accounts Assistant/ 
Admin Assistant/ Admin 
Coordinator / Exam 
Assistant/ Purchase 
Assistant/ Store 
Assistant/ Library 
Assistant/ Estate 
Assistant/ Maintenance 
Assistant/ T&P 
Assistant/ Receptionist-
cum-Tel. Operator/ 
Administrative 
Coordinator(IDEA) 
Graduate in any discipline  
with minimum 55% marks in 
related subject with minimum 9 
years’ experience in respective 
field  
5200-20200 2400 PB-I 
 
Site Supervisor  
 
Diploma in related subject with 
minimum 55% marks with 
minimum 9 years’ experience in 
respective field 
 
Hostel Warden  
 
Graduate in any discipline  
with minimum 55% marks with

--- PAGE 76 ---
76 
 
minimum 9 years’ experience in 
respective field  
Grade - 
V 
Accounts Assistant/ 
Admin Assistant/ Admin 
Coordinator / Exam 
Assistant/ Purchase 
Assistant/ Store 
Assistant/ Library 
Assistant/ Estate 
Assistant/ Maintenance 
Assistant/ T&P 
Assistant/ Receptionist-
cum-Tel. Operator 
/Deputy Manager 
(Stores)/IT Engineer/ 
Senior Electrician 
 
Graduate in any discipline  
with minimum 55% marks in 
related subject with minimum 12 
years’ experience in respective 
field  
5200-20200 2800 PB-I 
Site Supervisor  
 
         
Diploma in related subject with 
minimum 55% marks with 
minimum 12 years’ experience in 
respective field 
Hostel Warden  
 
Graduate in any discipline  
with minimum 55% marks with 
minimum 12 years’ experience in 
respective field 
Administrative Officer /Assistant Librarian/T&P Officer/System Officer/System Manager/ Executive 
Assistant/Administrative Coordinator/ Office Superintendent  
Grade - 
I 
Administrative Officer 
(Administrative/ Exam/ 
Accounts/ 
Estate/Maintenance/ 
Purchase) / Assistant 
T&P Officer /Assistant 
Librarian /Executive 
Assistant / 
Office Superintendent 
(HR/Admin/Exam) 
 
Post Graduate Degree in 
related subject with minimum 
3 years’ experience in 
respective field or Post 
Graduate Diploma in related 
subject with minimum 5 
years. experience in 
respective field  
9300-
34800 
4200 PB-II

--- PAGE 77 ---
77 
 
System Officer / 
System Manager  
 
Post Graduate Degree in 
Computer Science/ 
Networking or any 
equivalent, with minimum 3 
years’ experience in 
respective field or 
Post Graduate Diploma in 
Computer Science/ 
Networking  or any 
equivalent, with minimum 5 
years’ experience in 
respective field   
Grade - 
II 
Administrative Officer 
(Administrative/Exam/ 
Accounts/ 
Estate/Maintenance/ 
Purchase)/ /Assistant 
T&P Officer / Assistant 
Librarian /Executive 
Assistant  
 
Post Graduate Degree in 
related subject with minimum 
6 years’ experience in 
respective field or 
Post Graduate Diploma in 
related subject with minimum 
9  years’ experience in 
respective field  
9300-
34800 
4400 PB-II 
System Officer / 
System Manager 
Post Graduate Degree in 
Computer Science 
/Networking or any 
equivalent, with minimum 6 
years’ experience in 
respective field or 
Post Graduate Diploma in 
Computer Science 
/Networking or any 
equivalent, with minimum 9 
years’ experience in 
respective field 
Grade -
III 
Administrative Officer 
(Admin/Exam/Accounts
/Estate/Maintenance/P
urchase/T&P) 
/Assistant Librarian 
/Executive Assistant / 
Administrative 
Coordinator  
Post Graduate Degree in 
related subject with minimum 
10 years’ experience in 
respective field or 
Post Graduate in related 
subject with minimum  13 
years’ experience in 
respective field  
9300-
34800 
4600 PB-II

--- PAGE 78 ---
78 
 
 
System Officer / 
System Manager 
 
Post Graduate Degree in 
Computer Science 
/Networking or any 
equivalent, with minimum 10 
years’ experience in 
respective field or 
Post Graduate Diploma in 
Computer Science 
/Networking or any 
equivalent, with minimum 13 
years’ experience in 
respective field  
 
Senior Administrative Officer/ Senior Accts.  Officer/ Senior Exam.  Officer/ Senior Estate Officer/ 
Senior Maintenance Officer/ Senior Purchase Officer/ Senior T&P Officer/ Senior System Officer 
/Deputy Librarian / Assistant Registrar (Administrative Academics/Exam)/ Head (Accounts/Estate & 
Maintenance/Purchase & Stores//Training &  Placement/Corporate Relations/IT & System) / Librarian/ 
Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) / Chief Finance & Accounts Officer (CFAO) / Deputy COE / 
Joint/Deputy Registrar (Administrative/ Academics/Exam) / Dean (Administrative/Academics / 
Research/Students Affairs)/ Vice Chancellor/ Executive President / Provost 
  Senior Administrative 
Officer/ Senior Accts.  
Officer/ Senior Exam.  
Officer/ Senior Estate 
Officer/ Senior 
Maintenance Officer/ 
Senior Purchase 
Officer/ Senior T&P 
Officer/ Senior System 
Officer /Deputy 
Librarian 
Post Graduate Degree in 
related subject with minimum 
15 years’ experience in 
respective field  
or Post Graduate Diploma in 
related subject with minimum 
18 years’ experience in 
respective field  
 
9300-
34800 
5400 PB-II 
 Assistant Registrar 
(Administrative 
Academics/Exam)/ 
Head (Accounts/Estate 
& 
Maintenance/Purchase 
Post Graduate Degree in 
related subject with minimum 
18 years’ experience in 
respective field  
or Post Graduate Diploma in 
related subject with minimum 
15600-
39100 
5400 PB-III

--- PAGE 79 ---
79 
 
& Stores//Training & 
Placement/Corporate 
Relations/IT & System) 
/ Librarian  
21 years’ experience in 
respective field  
 Chief Administrative 
Officer (CAO) 
 
Post Graduate Degree in 
related subject with minimum 
20 years’ experience in 
respective field or Post 
Graduate Diploma in related 
subject with minimum 25 
years’ experience in 
respective field 
15600-
39100 
6600 PB-III 
 Chief Finance & 
Accounts Officer 
(CFAO) 
 
FCA or Post Graduate in 
related subject with minimum 
20 years’ experience in 
respective field or Post 
Graduate Diploma in related 
subject with minimum 25 
years’ experience in 
respective field 
15600-
39100 
6600 PB-III 
 Assistant Registrar       
(Admin, Academic , 
Exam) 
 
Post Graduate Degree in 
related subject with minimum 
20 years’ experience in 
respective field  
or Post Graduate Diploma in 
related subject with minimum 
25 years’ experience in 
respective field  
15600-
39100 
6600 PB-III 
 Deputy CoE Ph.D. or M. Phil with 
minimum of  10 years of 
experience in respective field 
15600-
39100 
7600 PB-III 
 Joint/Deputy Registrar 
(Administrative/ 
Academics/Exam) 
 
Post Graduate Degree in 
related subject with minimum 
20 years’. experience in 
respective field  
or Post Graduate Diploma in 
related subject with minimum 
25 years’ experience in 
respective field  
37400-
67000  
7600 PB-III 
 Registrar 
 
Ph.D. with 10 years’ 
experience or Master /Post 
37400-
67000 
9000 PB-IV

--- PAGE 80 ---
80 
 
Graduate Degree with 
minimum 25 years’ 
experience in respective field 
or 
Post Graduate Diploma with 
minimum 28 years’ 
experience in respective field 
 Dean 
(Administrative/Academ
ics / Research/Students 
Affairs)/ CoE 
 
Ph.D. or M. Phil with 
minimum of  15 years of 
experience in respective field 
37400-
67000 
10000 PB-IV 
 Vice 
Chancellor/Executive 
President / Provost 
 
Distinguished Academician 
with a minimum of 10 years 
of experience as Professor in 
a University system or 10 
years of experience in an 
equivalent position in a 
reputed research and/or 
academic administrative 
organization  
75500-
80000 
 
NIL HAG + 
Scale 
        
6.4. Recruitment Procedure  
6.4.1. Vacancy Announcement 
Vacancy for the staff positions (cadre -wise) shall be worked out by the Heads of the 
Departments/ Institutions with justification depending upon requirement as per norms 
in each department/ Institution. They  will submit the manpower requirement to the 
Registrar/Executive President. 
6.4.2. Screening of Candidates 
Vacancy of staff positions shall be ascertained by the Executive President through 
Registrar, Directors and HODs. He in turn, in consultation with the Management, shall 
make the necessary arrangements for advertising the requirements in leading 
Newspapers. The applications received will be scrutinized by the concerned staff with 
respect to the eligibility of the candidates. Initial screening process shall be done by 
the selection committee formed for this purpose. Separate selection committees will be 
formed for faculty, administrative and technical staff. The interview calls to the 
shortlisted candidates will be sent stating the date and time of the interview s. For all 
teaching staff, candidates are required to appear in an online examination to test their 
subject knowledge and give a demonstration lecture to select faculty members. Score 
of these will be available to the selection committee before the interview.

--- PAGE 81 ---
81 
 
The Screening Cum Evaluation/ Selection Committee will conduct the interviews and 
decide upon the appointment of candidates. A suggested format for Interview Matrix 
for Faculty Position is available at Appendix B. A suggested format for Overall 
Assessment for the Faculty Position is available at Appendix C. A suggested format 
for the Final Interview Matrix for Faculty Position based on marks is available at 
Appendix D. 
Subsequently, the appointment orders will be issued to the selected candidates 
indicating the terms and conditions of employment in Indus University.  The list of the 
provisionally selected candidates will be submitted later to BOG/ BOM for the approval. 
If any candidate does not join within a particular time frame, the next candidate standing 
in the waiting list will be considered. 
 
6.4.3. Appointments  
 
The appointment shall be based on the performance of the candidate considered by 
the selection committee. The minutes of the selection committee will be submitted to 
the competent authority for the approval. Subsequently, the appointment letter/ offer 
will be prepared and sent as per laid down norms of the university in accordance with 
UGC guidelines.Teaching" and "Non-teaching Personnel" appointments shall be made 
according to the procedures for recruitment laid down by the University from time to 
time.

--- PAGE 82 ---
82 
 
6.4.3.1 The eligibility criteria in respect of educational qualifications, experience, age and job 
skills for different  categories of "Teaching" and "Non -teaching Personnel" shall be in 
consonance with the guidelines laid down by UGC/ AICTE/ Indus University/ Any other 
regulatory authority as applicable from time to time. 
6.4.3.2 The recruitment of "Teaching" and "Non -teaching Personnel" shall be made on merit 
and without prejudice to race, religion or gender. 
6.4.4 Joining Formalities 
6.4.5  Every staff member, while joining the Institution shall submit the following to the 
Registrar:  
6.4.6 Joining Report 
6.4.7 Medical Fitness Certificate from a panel doctor in a prescribed form. 
6.4.8 Photo copy of his Degree Certificates, Experience Certificates etc. along with the 
originals for verification. 
6.4.9 Two passport size photographs. 
6.4.10 One stamp size photograph (for ID card). 
6.4.10.1 Take charge of all materials, files, etc. from his predecessor on instructions from the 
HoD and report completion to the HR Department/Director through the HoD. 
6.4.10.2 The staff member shall furnish his temporary/permanent address along with the 
contact phone number and email ID to the HR Department. As and when there is 
any change in the address/contact phone number/email ID, the same has to be 
notified to the office immediately. 
6.4.11 Verification of Certificates 
Relevant certificates of the candidates selected for appointment in the University will 
be verified by concerned officials from the original certificates. 
6.4.12 Letter of Reference 
  Letter of references in case of need, are referred to the concerned faculty and staff 
who have certified the conduct and character of the candidate to verify whether the 
facts submitted by the candidate are correct 
6.4.13 Probation  
Every employee of Indus University, unless otherwise advised, shall be on probation 
for a period of one year.  The University, however, reserves the right to extend or 
reduce the duration of probation of an employee based on the performance of the 
employee. Generally, the procedure regarding the closure of probation shall be 
completed within two weeks from due date of the closure of probation, failing which 
the probation period will be considered as extended. The University also reserves 
the right not to continue with the services of any staff member on completion of the 
probation period/extended probation period.

--- PAGE 83 ---
83 
 
6.4.14 Confirmation 
On successful completion of the probation period, an employee will be 
communicated about the confirmation of employment based on the performance 
appraisal of the employee as per the procedure laid down in the university 
regulations. 
6.4.15 Prohibition on Employment Outside 
6.4.15.1 No university employee shall be engaged directly or indirectly in any trade, business 
or occupation, either full time or part time, other than in Indus University. 
(or)

--- PAGE 84 ---
84 
 
Any other remunerative or non-remunerative commitment outside University. 
6.4.15.2 If a teacher is invited by other institutions for guest lectures, examinations, seminars, 
he can do so by taking due permission from the competent authority.  
6.4.15.3 Symposia and similar academic events/tasks, can also be undertaken only after due 
permission from the appropriate authority. 
6.4.16 Remuneration 
6.4.16.1 The Pay scales for the employees, including annual increments, allowances, 
perquisites and benefits shall be prescribed by the Management in consonance with 
the norms of UGC/ AICTE/ Indus University or any other relevant statutory body as 
prescribed from time to time, subject to fulfilling the promotion criteria based on 
APAR/PBAS and Annual Performance Indicators (API), the recommendations and 
review of the competent authority at the university  and the affordabili ty of the 
university to adopt  the scales. The Annual Performance Appraisal Report (APAR)  
process is given at Appendix E.  
7 Promotion 
7.4 For Teaching Staff  
7.4.3 The Career Advancement Scheme (CAS) to the posts of Associate Professors and 
Professors in the Universities/Institutes shall be based on the recommendations 
of duly constituted Screening –cum-Evaluation Committee or Selection 
Committees/Expert Committee as prescribed by the UGC/AICTE/CoA or 
Statutes/Ordinances of Indus University or  other regulatory bodies as applicable 
and as amended from time to time. The guidelines also contain details of 
constitution of committees and selection procedure. The calculation  of Academic 
Performance Indicators (API) will be as per details given at Appendix F. The 
Annual Self-Appraisal Form for the Faculty Members is available at Appendix G. 
Currently, the following regulations are in force: 
7.4.3.1 UGC: University Grants Commission (Minimum Qualifications for Appointment of 
Teachers and Other Academic Staff in Universities and Colleges and Other 
Measures for the Maintenance of Standards in Higher Education ) Regulations, 
2010 and Amendments No. 1, 2, 3 & 4 of 2016. 
7.4.3.2 AICTE: Revised Pay -scales, Service Conditions, and Qualifications for the 
Teachers and Other Academic Staff in Technical Institutions (Degree & Diploma) 
Regulation 2010 and Amendment dated 4th January 2016. 
7.4.3.3 CoA:  Minimum Standards of Architectural Education Regulations, 1983.   
7.5 For Non-Teaching Staff  
      The norms/stages of promotion for the non-teaching staff are given below:

--- PAGE 85 ---
85 
 
7.5.3 The eligibility conditions including qualifications and experience required for 
various levels of posts for direct recruitment are given in the above Table at 6.3 (B 
& C). For the purpose of the promotion of internal candidates to higher level posts, 
while the qualifications may remain same, the experience required would vary 
between 1.25 to 1.75 times that required for direct recruitment to that post.  
However, the number of vacancies to be filled by direct recruitment and/or 
promotion from within and the exact experience required will be decided by the 
management from time to time depending upon the number of vacancies, 
availability of candidates both from within and outside, the urgency of filling these 
posts and a suitability of the candidates. The Annual Self-Appraisal Form of Lab. 
Staff & Admin. Staff are available at Appendix H & I respectively. 
7.5.4 The staff members are eligible for higher grade promotions subject to fulfilling the 
minimum qualification and meeting criteria as prescribed in the above Table given 
at 6.3 (B & C). 
7.5.5 If a candidate is eligible or applies for promotion on completion of the minimum 
eligibility criteria as decided by the University authorities  and is successful, the 
date of promotion will be from that of minimum period of eligibility  or from a date 
as decided by the management. 
7.5.6 If, however, the candidates find that he fulfils the eligibility conditions at a later date 
and applies on that date and is successful, his promotion will be effected from that 
date of application fulfilling the criteria  or from a date as decided by the 
management. 
7.5.7 If the candidate does not succeed in the first assessment, but succeeds in eventual 
assessment, his promotion will be deemed to be from the later date of successful 
assessment or from a date as decided by the management.  
7.5.8 The selection procedures of  the selection committee shall be completed on the 
day of the selection committee meeting itself, wherein, minutes are recorded along 
with the scoring proforma and recommendation made on the basis of merit with 
the list of selected and waitlisted candidates/panel of names in order of merit, duly 
signed by all members of the selection committee. 
7.5.9 The overall selection procedure shall incorporate transparent, objective and 
credible methodology of analysis of the merits and credentials of the applicants 
based o n weightages given to the performance of the candidate in different 
relevant dimensions and his performance on a scoring system proforma, as 
decided by the University authorities.

--- PAGE 86 ---
86 
 
8 Resignation/Termination 
8.1 If any permanent staff member wants to resign from the job, the concerned staff member 
shall give a minimum of Two Months’ advance notice about his intention to resign from the 
job to the Registrar /Executive President through HOD in writing. The application will be 
forwarded through proper channel on prio rity basis. However, in case of faculty members 
and non-teaching staff, the notice period will not end during the semester i.e. academic term 
(i.e. till the completion of evaluation work) and  it will continue till commencement of the 
vacations. In case the  faculty/non-teaching staff is unable to give two months’ notice and 
cannot wait till commencement of vacations, he should surrender 2 -months’ salary / part 
thereof as applicable provided such a request is approved by the management. It will be left 
to the discretion of the management to accept salary against short fall of notice period or 
not. The accumulated earned leave at the credit of the staff member may be adjusted 
towards the notice period. A reference may be made to Para 13 below for additional details.  
 
8.2 If the Management wants to terminate the services of a probationary/permanent staff 
member, one/two months’ notice or one/two months’ salary in lieu shall be given to hi m by 
the Management respectively. The Management can te rminate the services of any 
employee without assigning any reason. However, this clause will not be applicable in case 
of insu bordination, insolence, dishonesty or gross negligence of duty or any violation of 
service rules by the staff and the services will be terminated immediately. 
 
8.3 While getting relieved from duties, files, materials, documents etc. entrusted to him, shall be 
handed over to the person nominated by the HOD / Director/Registrar with proper 
acknowledgement. The handing over change shall be countersigned by the 
HOD/Director/Registrar/Executive President. 
 
8.4 The staff members can apply for his financial dues and the relieving order from the University 
only after the production of “No D ues Certificate” in the prescribed form along with a copy 
of the handing/taking over charge record. 
 
8.5 If a staff member wishes to apply for a job in any other University / organization, either 
Government / Autonomous / private / charitable / or any other similar organization, or desires 
to pursue higher studies, a “N o Objection Certificate” shall be obtained from the Registrar 
through proper channel in writing, in advance, before the staff /faculty member

--- PAGE 87 ---
87 
 
applies for the same. In an academic year, the faculty/staff member will be allowed to apply 
to outside agencies for job only three times. 
8.6 A service / experience letter, relieving letter, last pay drawn letter and no-dues letter may be 
issued on request from a staff, at the time of discharge or termination of service, resignation 
or retirement from the university, only if the above terms have been complied with by the staff 
/ faculty member. 
8.7 The departing staff will be interviewed any time after a week of submission of resignation. 
9 Exit Interview 
9.1 This is applicable for all staff resigning/relieved from the services of the University on their 
own/otherwise. 
9.2 This interview is aimed at knowing the reasons for their leaving the services of the University. 
9.3 A format has to be filled (in duplicate) by the staff and it should be handed -over to the HR 
Department. Please refer to Appendix J. 
9.4 The departing staff will be interviewed preferably on the last day of his service with the 
university or few days before as an exception.  
10 Retirement 
The age of superannuation shall be 65 years for teaching staff. This may be extended to 70 
years, on yearly contractual basis, provided the performance of the staff member is found 
suitable and he is medically fit. The decision of the Management in this regard will be final.  
For, a non-teaching and all other staff, the age of superannuation shall be 60 years.  
10.1 Retainer / Fixed Terms Employment / Contractual. If the management requires his / 
her services after retirement then he / she can be hired as retainer with the renewal on 
yearly basis, provided that the performance of the staff member is found suitable and he 
/ she should be medically fit. 
Terms of engagement is as per individual’s appointment letter and eligibility for the said 
period are as follow. 
(a) Casual Leave         -    12 Days / p.a 
(b) Sick Leave               -   10 days / p.a

--- PAGE 88 ---
88 
 
11 Provident Fund 
All employees of the university on permanent establishment drawing a basic salary less 
or equal to Rs. 15,000/ - per month will be enrolled under E mployees Provident Fund 
(EPF) scheme and their contribution as per the prevalent norms will be deducted from 
their pay. Management will make a matching contribution. 
  
12 Gratuity 
All employees of University who have completed five years of qualifying service are 
eligible to get service gratuity at the time of retirement or leaving the university due to 
resignation/termination, etc. The grant of gratuity will be as per the Payment of Gratuity 
Act.  
 
13 Benefits 
13.1 Salary 
13.1.1 Monthly salary will be paid as per University norms. Suitable Dearness Allowance (DA) 
and House Rent Allowance (HRA) will be paid to staff members who are on grade scale 
of pay. The DA will be revised whenever announced by the Management. Annual 
increments will be sanctioned to eligible staff members based upon annual performance 
review. In all cases, the income received by the university will be the guiding factor. 
 
13.1.2 Disbursement of Salary 
Salary of each staff member will be directly deposited in the Staff member’s account in a 
bank as decided by the management. Staff members should give his account number to 
the Accounts Officer. Income tax  and other deductions as applicable, will be deducted 
from the salary and remitted to the Government. 
 
13.1.3 Employees Group Insurance scheme   
All staff members covered under Employees Provident Fund are covered under this 
scheme known as Employees Provident Fund Deposit Linked Insurance (EDLI) Scheme. 
Management pays the premium towards this policy. In the event of unfortunate death of 
any staff member, his family will get the sum assured depending upon the length of 
service and salary of the staff member.

--- PAGE 89 ---
89 
 
13.2 Salary Advance 
13.2.1 Salary advance not exceeding one month’s gross pay will be sanctioned to the eligible 
permanent employees of the University at the discretion of the Management. If any staff 
member, not covered under Employees Provident Fund  scheme, wishes to avail this 
facility, he should produce a surety from a staff member who is covered under the  
Employees Provident Fund scheme. 
13.2.2 An advance of one-month net salary may be given to administrative support staff once a 
year for any urgent personal requirement on the recommendation of the Reporting 
Officer. This will be recovered in not more than three successive instalments commencing 
from the month immediately after the payment of such an advance.   
13.2.3 The staff member will be allowed to repay the advance in three equal monthly 
installments. He shall not be granted a second advance when there is a balance amount 
pending recovery against the previous advance. 
13.2.4 In a calendar year, only one request for advance shall be entertained from a staff 
member. The application should be submitted in the prescribed form to the Accounts 
Office after routing it through proper channel. 
13.3 Transport Facility 
University is operating buses for the benefit of students on all working days of the 
University covering specific and prominent locations / regions in the city of Ahmedabad. 
Staff members may use this facility, in case there are vacant seats available in the buses. 
This facility will be on chargeable basis and amount will be deducted from the salary.  
13.4 Canteen Facility 
Full-fledged canteen facilities are available on the campus serving food items at 
reasonable cost and very high quality to students, staff and visitors. While entering into 
an agreement with the contractor, management will try to get a subsidized rate for the 
staff. 
13.5 Medical Facilities 
University has arrangements with specific medical facilities, within the campus reach, 
round the clock to address the medical emergencies. 
13.6 Other facilities 
ATM facilities, Courier Services, Stationery shop and other facilities for daily needs 
are located within the Campus

--- PAGE 90 ---
90 
 
 
Appendix: A 
 (Refers to Point No.6.2.1.1) 
 
  
 
PERFORMA FOR CALCULATING ACADEMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FOR THE 
POST OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR AND PROFESSOR UNDER DIRECT 
RECRUITMENT 
 
Name of Candidate  : 
Faculty Applied for  : 
Department Applied for : 
Post Applied for  : 
Research, Publication and Academic Contribution: 
 
A) Research Papers Published in Refereed Journals, Non -Refereed but recognized and 
reputable Journals and Periodicals, having ISBN / ISSN number and Conference 
Proceedings as full papers etc.: 
Sr. 
No 
Title of Paper Journal / 
Details of 
Conference 
Proceedings 
ISSN / 
ISBN 
Number 
Whether 
Peer 
Reviewed, 
Impact 
Factor, if 
any 
No. of 
Co-
Author/s 
Whether 
You are 
Main 
Author 
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
 
 
B) Research Publications in books chapters in books other than refereed journals articles:

--- PAGE 91 ---
91 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Title of Paper Book Title 
Editors & 
Publisher 
ISSN / 
ISBN 
Number 
Whether 
Peer 
Reviewed 
No. of 
Co-
authors 
Whether 
You are 
Main 
Author 
       
       
       
       
       
       
C) Research Projects: 
(i) Sponsored Projects carried out / ongoing: 
Sr. 
No. 
Title Agency Period Grant Amount Mobilized 
     
     
     
(ii) Consultancy Projects carried out / ongoing: 
Sr. 
No. 
Title Agency Period Grant Amount Mobilized 
     
     
     
(iii) Completed Projects: Quality Evaluation: 
Sr. 
No. 
Title Agency Period Grant Amount 
Mobilized 
Outcome 
(Technology 
Transfer / Product / 
Process) 
      
      
      
 
 
(iv) Projects Outcomes / Outputs: 
Sr. 
No. 
Title Agency Period Grant Amount 
Mobilized 
Whether Policy 
Documents / Patent 
/ Technology /

--- PAGE 92 ---
92 
 
Transfer / Product / 
Process as 
Outcome 
      
      
      
 
D) Research Guidance: 
1. M. Phil or Equivalent: 
Sr. 
No. 
Number of Enrolled Thesis Submitted Degree Awarded 
    
    
    
 
2. Ph. D or Equivalent: 
Sr. 
No. 
Number of Enrolled Thesis 
Submitted 
Degree 
Awarded 
    
    
    
 
E) Training Courses and Conference / Seminar / Workshop Papers: 
(i) Refresher Courses, Methodology Workshop, Training Teaching – Learning 
Evaluation Technology Programmes, Soft Skill Development Programmes, 
Faculty Development Programmes (Not less than One Week Duration). 
Sr. 
No. 
Programme Duration Organized by 
    
    
    
 
(ii) Papers in Conference / Seminar / Workshop etc.: 
Sr. 
No. 
Title of Paper Presented  
in Conference/ Seminar / 
Workshop 
Title of 
Conference / 
Seminar / 
Workshop 
Organized 
by 
Level International 
/ National / State / 
Regional / College 
of University

--- PAGE 93 ---
93 
 
     
     
     
     
 
(iii) Invited Lectures and Chairmanship at National or International Conference / 
Seminar etc.: 
Sr. 
No. 
Title of Lecture / Academic 
Session 
Title of 
Conference/ 
Seminar 
Organized by Level 
International/ 
National 
     
     
     
     
 
Instructions: 
1. The minimum consolidated API score required by the teachers for the Post of 
Associate Professor is 300 Points and for Professors is 400 Points 
2. Enclose the proof for all details. 
3. The Self – Assessment Score (as per Appendix F) will be based on verifiable criteria 
and will be finalized by screening / selection committee. 
 
I certify that the information provided is correct. 
 
 
Date :         (Signature of Applicant)

--- PAGE 94 ---
94 
 
                    Appendix: B 
                    (Refers to Point No. 6.4.2) 
 
INDUS UNIVERSITY 
INSTITUTE: ______________________________________ 
INTERVIEW FOR ASSESSMENT OF SUITABILITY FOR THE POST OF ASSISTANT /ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR HELD ON___________        
DEPARTMENT OF ___________________________ 
INTERVIEW MATRIX FOR FACULTY POSITION BASED ON MARKS 
 
Name of Assessor: 
Designation: 
University /Institute: 
Sr 
No  
Name of 
Candidate 
 
Interview Related Assessment (50 Marks ) Total 
Marks Average 
Overall 
Position 
in Rank 
Remarks 
    
 
 
HoD Director Dean 
(A) Registrar Subject 
Expert 
Executive 
President         
1                      
2                      
3                      
4                      
5                      
   
Signature: 
Name: 
 
Status:                                           (Member 1)             (Member 2)            (Member 3)        (Member 4)                (External Expert) 
Designation:  
University/Institute: 
Chairman 
Station: Ahmedabad 
Date:

--- PAGE 95 ---
95 
 
Appendix: C 
(Refers to Point No.6.4.2) 
INDUS UNIVERSITY 
INSTITUTE :________________________________________________  
INTERVIEW FOR ASSESSMENT OF SUITABILITY FOR THE POST OF ASSISTANT /ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR HELD ON___________ 
DEPARTMENT OF ___________________________ 
OVERALL ASSESMENT OF SUITABILITY FOR FACULTY POSITION 
 
Name of Assessor: 
Designation: 
University /Institute: 
 
Sr 
No  
Name of 
Candidate Interview Related Assessment (50 Marks ) Total 
Marks Average Online test and Demo 
Lecture related Marks 
 
Total(80) 
Grand 
Total(80) 
Overall 
Position 
in Rank 
Remarks 
    Hod Director Dean 
(A) Registrar Subject 
Expert 
Executive 
President     
Online 
Test 
(10) 
Demo 
Lecture 
(20) 
Total 
(30)         
1                                 
2                                 
3                                 
4                                 
5                                 
 
Signature: 
Name: 
 
Status:                                           (Member 1)             (Member 2)            (Member 3)        (Member 4)                (External Expert) 
Designation:  
University/Institute: 
Chairman 
Station: Ahmedabad 
Date:

--- PAGE 96 ---
96 
 
Appendix: D 
         (Refers to Point No. 6.4.2) 
INDUS UNIVERSITY 
INSTITUTE :________________________________________________  
INTERVIEW FOR ASSESSMENT OF SUITABILITY FOR THE POST OF ASSISTANT /ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR HELD ON___________ 
DEPARTMENT OF ___________________________ 
FINAL INTERVIEW MATRIX FOR FACULTY POSITION 
Name of Assessor: 
Designation: 
University /Institute: 
Sr. 
No
. 
Name 
of 
Candi-
date 
Interview Related Assessment  
 
 
Total 
Mar-
ks 
(50) 
Avg Online test and Demo 
Lecture related Marks 
 
Tot-
al 
(80) 
CV related assessment 
 
 Grand 
Total 
(100) 
Overall 
Position 
in Rank 
Rem-
arks 
HoD Direc-
tor 
Dean 
(A) 
Regis-
trar 
Subject 
Expert 
Execu-
tive 
Presi-
dent 
  On-
line 
Test 
(10) 
Demo 
Lectu-
re (20) 
Total 
(30) 
 Addi-
tional 
qualif-
ication 
(10) 
Teac-
hing/ 
Indu-
strial 
Expe-
rience 
(5) 
Res-
earch 
Work 
(5) 
Total 
(20) 
   
1.                     
2.                     
3.                     
4.                     
5.                     
Signature: 
Name: 
 
Status:                                           (Member 1)             (Member 2)            (Member 3)        (Member 4)                (External Expert) 
Designation:  
University/Institute: 
Chairman 
Station: Ahmedabad 
Date:

--- PAGE 97 ---
97 
 
    Appendix: E 
                                                                                          (Refers to Point No.6.4.10.1) 
 
ANNUAL PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL REPORT (APAR) PROCESS 
Introduction 
The University's Annual Performance Appraisal Report (APAR) process is designed to support 
the staff in a discussion and reflection on the past year - including how far the objectives set 
for the previous year have been achieved, challenges encountered and workload, etc. It also 
helps plan the coming year's objectives, identify personal development and keep track of the 
progression of one's career over their service period. 
Complementing the University's Goals 
The APAR provides an opportunity to also comment on how an individual's work complements 
the University's goals and objectives. These goals should be kept in mind by the officer/official 
while preforming his duties as well as while filling up the APAR. The assessing faculty and staff 
should also keep these in mind while rating the individual and commenting on the performance 
of the individual during the year. 
Maintenance of APAR and Guidelines 
An APAR is a very important record which is req uired to be consulted for various purposes, 
e.g., promotion, increments, punishments, appeals, etc. The report should therefore, depict a 
true assessment about the work and conduct of employees in an explicit and concise manner. 
1. The Need for Regular and Punctual Recording of Reports in Personal Files 
It is essential that all faculty and staff are assessed regularly and punctually and these 
reports are maintained in the personal file of the individual , otherwise its utility as a 
confidential record disappears and it is deprived of much of its value. Indeed, the very 
purpose for which it is maintained stands defeated. The need for observance of punctuality 
and regularity in the writing of reports is essential for the reasons that: 
(a) Delay in writing of reports especially by the faculty and staff relinquishing charge of 
their post is not administratively desirable because with the passage of time, the 
assessment becomes unrealistic;

--- PAGE 98 ---
98 
 
(b) The possibility of the reports being biased on account of delay in writing cannot be 
ruled out; 
(c) If a representation against adverse remarks recorded is received at a later stage, the 
faculty and staff concerned will not be in a position to give proper justification to the 
basis of the remarks; 
(d) The cases involving consideration of the latest report for deciding several matters such 
as promotions, grant of annual increment, etc. may have to be kept pending. 
 
2. Minimum Period for which a Reporting Officer Should Have Seen the Work of a 
Subordinate before Recording Remarks in his Report 
No reporting officer should record his remarks in the confidential report of an officer/official 
under him unless he has seen his work and conduct for at least 3 months during the 
reporting year. If the officer/official has served under the reporting authority for less than 
3 months, the opinion of the officer under whom he previously served for at least three 
months should be obtained. In such a case, the predecessor should then submit his 
remarks direct to the next higher authority. The period of three months referred to above 
means the period for which the reporting authority has actually seen the work of the 
officer/official reported upon. Regular leave/casual leave is treated as duty, whereas the 
period of long leave/suspension when a University employee does not attend to his duties, 
is not to be counted in calculating this period. Nor will the long leave/suspension period of 
the reporting officer, if any, is to be taken into consideration when he does  not oversee 
the work of the subordinate. 
3. Recording of Remarks on the Occasion of Relinquishment of Charge by Reporting 
Authority 
A confidential report shall also be written when either the Reporting Officer or the 
employee reported upon relinquishes charg e of the post and, in such cases, it shall be 
written before relinquishment of the charge and submitted by the faculty and staff to the 
Reporting Officer. This will also be recorded in the handing over notes. In case the 
employee has two reports initiated during the same year, the second on his new 
assignment, then both these part-reports will be processed in the same manner as other 
normal reports.

--- PAGE 99 ---
99 
 
4. Recording of Remarks by an Officer While Under Suspension, Long Leave or After 
Retirement 
An officer under suspension is not competent to record confidential reports on the work of 
his previous subordinates. Similarly, any Reporting Officer on a long period of absence 
(over a year), shall not report/review the report of any subordinate. An officer who retires 
from university service on superannuation or prematurely/voluntarily, may not 
record/accept the reports after his relinquishing the charge of the post. 
5. Frequency and Period of Writing of Report 
All faculties/staff will be reported on at least once in a year. In an eventuality of a transfer 
during the year, and the individual having served more than three months under more than 
one reporting officer, there may be two part-reports for one individual during the year. 
 
The Timelines for the Reporting Process will be: 
 
(a) Forwarding of APAR forms to individuals by HOD/HR                               01 May 
(b) Time limit for receipt of completed form from an 
employee                      
30 June 
(c) Submission of completed form by faculty and 
staff/officials to reporting faculty and staff     
01 July 
(d) Reporting Faculty and staff to forward forms to 
Reviewing Officer with their remarks 
15 July 
(e) Endorsement of remarks by the Countersigning Officer                              25 July 
 
Notes: 
 
(a) All authorities shall mention the date with their remarks on the confidential report. 
(b) In case the report in respect of any employee is not received by 30  September by the 
Reviewing Officer, the report written thereafter shall not be placed in his personal file and 
only a certificate, duly signed by the competent authority, should be added in personal file 
of the employee that the work and conduct of the officer/official concerned during the period 
in question, was satisfactory/ unsatisfactory. 
(c) A certificate shall be furnished by all Heads of Depa rtments to the Registrar by 30  
September every year certifying that all confidential reports in their departments have been 
duly recorded and forwarded to the Reviewing Officer, accompanied by a nominal roll of 
the reports submitted. 
(d) Where unreasonable and unjustified delay takes place and policy laid down is infringed by 
the assesse, responsibility may be fixed so as to take suitable disciplinary action where

--- PAGE 100 ---
100 
 
warranted. Further, adverse notice should be taken of those Reporting Authorities who do 
not record the reports on time, and sup erior faculty and staff of such reporting authorities 
may record this lapse in the annual Confidential Reports of such defaulting reporting 
authorities. 
 
6. Period of Reporting Year 
For the purposes of confidential reports, the reporting year shall be from 01 July to 30 June 
of the next year. 
7. Channel of Reporting 
The channel of reporting for Academic and the Administrative/Support/Laboratory staff is 
attached at Annexure to this Appendix. 
8. Reports Are to Be Written Realistically Without the Element of Approach or 
Malafide Intention 
The annual confidential reports should be written in a fair, impartial and objective manner. 
Faculty and staff recording confidential reports should realize the value and importance of 
such reports especially while making adverse rema rks affecting the careers of the 
employees reported upon. While reporting/accepting authorities have the fullest freedom 
and right to record their opinion about the work and conduct of their subordinates, while 
doing so, they are to be guided solely by considerations of merit, justice and consistency. 
9. Form of the Report and What the Report Should Contain 
The prescribed forms for writing Annual Confidential Reports and what the rep ort should 
contain for Faculty, Lab. Staff and  Admin Staff shall be as per Appendices G, H & I 
respectively. 
10. Report Regarding Integrity 
The integrity of the employees, being of greatest importance, needs a special mention in 
the confidential reports. It should be clearly stated if the officer/official is suspected of 
corruption or is believed to be corrupt and this opinion should generally  be based on firm 
grounds, which may be in the possession of the reporting officer. The reporting faculty and 
staff should give a definite, frank and honest opinion on the integrity of their subordinates. 
The practice of making non -committal/ill-considered remarks in this regard should be 
discouraged. Reporting faculty and staff should give a definite opinion on the integrity of

--- PAGE 101 ---
101 
 
their subordinates, and avoid remarks like "no complaints." Further, instances have come 
to the notice in which even though faculty and staff/officials reported upon were proceeded 
against for serious forms of corruption, their confidential reports for the same periods 
certified their integrity to be good. 
11. Procedure to be Followed Where a Reporting Authority is Related to the Officer to 
be Reported Upon 
The reporting officer should be competent to record his remarks, but while doing so, he 
should clearly mention if he is related to the officer/ official reported upon and bring out the 
exact nature of relationship if he is the first re porting officer. When the reporting officer is 
the second authority and not the initiating authority of the report, he need not write any 
remark. 
 
12. Communication of Adverse Remarks: 
(a) All Adverse Remarks are to be Communicated 
Adverse remarks in all cases are  to be communicated so that the employee 
concerned gets an opportunity to know his defects, if any, which he should 
consciously endeavor to remedy in the subsequent year. 
(b) General Principles for Communicating Adverse Remarks 
For communicating adverse remarks to the employee concerned, following general 
principles are to be followed: 
(i) When report is built up on the individual opinions as noted by different departmental 
superiors in their assessment, it is only the opinion as accepted by the 
Countersigning Offi cer which needs to be considered from the  point of view of 
communication. 
(ii) Only the adverse remarks recorded or endorsed by the highest authority, reporting 
upon a faculty and staff should be communicated. Where an adverse remark has 
not been specifically d enied by a higher authority, it should be conveyed. It is, 
however, open to that authority to decide that any adverse remark need not be 
communicated. Where it is so decided, a specific order to this effect should be 
recorded. 
(iii) The reporting officer should specifically state while writing the report whether the 
defect(s) reported has/have already been brought through any other communication 
to the notice of the faculty and staff concerned or not. This point needs to be noted 
carefully.

--- PAGE 102 ---
102 
 
(iv) Remarks in cases in which the Countersigning Officer or other officer competent to 
record the report, over-rules the judgment of a lower reporting authority, this should 
not be communicated. 
(v) The practice of conveying adverse remarks only is rather discouraging and leaves 
the fa culty and staff concerned guessing as to the general purport of the 
communication. To avoid anxiety on this account, the faculty and staff should know 
briefly (in a sentence or part -sentence) the summary impression of the report. For 
example, it may be, 'w hile your work has been assessed as of a good standard of 
efficiency and competence, it has been pointed that you tend to delay cases'; or, 
'though your work is generally assessed as satisfactory during the year, you show 
a communal tendency which is brought to your notice for correction;’ or ' while you 
are a hard working officer, you sometimes lose your temp er while dealing with the 
employees.' 
(vi) The words 'No remarks' by the higher/highest authority do not mean that the remarks 
of first or second reporting  authority cease to exist. On the other hand, they mean 
that the Countersigning Authority agrees with the remarks or has no reason to differ 
from them, whether good or bad, recorded by the lower authority/authorities. 
(vii) All competent authorities should make an occasional check of APAR entrusted to 
their custody in order to ensure that adverse remarks have actually been conveyed 
to the faculty or staff concerned. At the time of promotion, granting increments, etc. 
no notice can be taken of such adverse remarks  which have not been conveyed. 
Where a competent authority does not convey adverse remarks to the faculty or 
staff concerned, the omission will be treated as discriminatory action on their part 
and due notice shall be taken of it. The faculty or staff responsible for the unjustified 
delay in communicating the adverse remarks beyond three months shall also be 
liable to explain the delay. 
(viii) The Countersigning Officer should be consulted at the time of communication of any 
adverse remarks if at the time of writing the report his views were not by any chance 
recorded therein. 
(ix) Except to the extent indicated above, APAR are not to be communicated or shown 
to the officer concerned. 
(x) While communicating the adverse remark(s) to an employee the identity of the 
superior officer making such remark(s) should not normally be disclosed. If, however 
in a particular case, it is considered necessary to disclose the identity of the

--- PAGE 103 ---
103 
 
Countersigning Officer, the authority dealing with the representation may at his 
discretion allow the identity to be communicated. 
13. Representations Against Adverse Remarks 
(a) Spirit in Which the Adverse Remarks Are to be Taken 
 There is a tendency among staff and faculty at all levels not to take adverse remark(s) 
in the spirit in which this/these are intended and as a part of the normal progression of 
their career. It is often forgotten that the primary purpose of maintaining a record of 
report of a faculty/staff work is to accumulate over a period of years, a varied 
assessment regarding the performance, character, ability and integrity of the faculty or 
staff in discharging the responsibilities entrusted to him. This record is meant to enable 
the authorities to assess the total worth of an individual officer/official with a view to 
utilizing him in the  best way possible. Primarily, therefore, the record of an 
officer/official is a document to be utilized for promotions, postings, transfers, 
encouragement, caution, etc. This is the main purpose of the record and it must, 
therefore, be borne in mind. It i s only incidentally a means of bringing to the faculty’s 
or staff’s notice defects which he should consciously endeavor to remedy. 
(b) Representation is to be Allowed if Adverse Remarks Are Based on Patent Error 
of Fact or Are Malafide 
There may be instances where the adverse remark(s) is/are not bonafide, or is/are 
based on a patent error of fact and examination of the representation in such a case 
is, therefore, called for. Where the preliminary examination of the representation does 
not prima facie establish that the adverse remark(s) is/are malafide or based on a 
patent error of fact, there should be no hesitation in disposing of the representation on 
merits. Where, however, it appears prima facie that the remark(s) is/are not bonafid e 
or that this/these are based on a clear error of fact, the representation should be 
examined carefully. If as a result, it is found that the adverse remark(s) was/were not 
justified, after obtaining the orders of the highest administrative authority, a note should 
be recorded on the confidential report expunging the remarks and the faculty/staff 
concerned should be informed of the action taken. The reporting officer may also be 
informed and suitably warned where malafide intent is indicated. Recourse to 
expunction of remarks should be carried out only after observing the procedure laid 
down above. There may also be border line cases in which there may be some 
substance in the adverse remark(s) conveyed to the faculty/staff and also some 
justification for t he representation made by the faculty/staff against the adverse

--- PAGE 104 ---
104 
 
remark(s). In such cases, the proper course to adopt would be to place the 
representation on the personal file after obtaining the orders of the highest 
administrative authority. 
(c) Time Limit for Making Representation Against the Adverse Remarks 
A representation for the expunction of adverse remarks, communicated to the 
officer/official, should be filed within a period of one month of its receipt. This time limit 
is to be followed rigidly and any  time-barred representations will be rejected. It is 
dangerous to allow faculty and staff to go on putting up representations whenever they 
think the situation is favourable to them, and post facto attempts to clean up personal 
files must be resisted. The faculty/staff, who wanted to represent against adverse 
remarks, but could not do so because he was unable to lay hands on the relevant 
record in order to prepare his representation is required to intimate to the authority 
within the specified time limit, c onveying that he would be making a detailed 
representation after examining the relevant record. As far as possible, the detailed 
representation should also be sent within the prescribed time limit of one month, but 
where this is not practicable owing to th e circumstances beyond an officer's/official's 
control and the authority dealing with the representation is satisfied about it, the 
representation may be entertained. An early resolution of the representation will 
enable the employee concerned to know finally the impact of the adverse remarks so 
that he has full opportunity to rectify his defects at the earliest. 
(d) Guidelines for Dealing with the Representations Against Adverse Remarks 
The following guidelines for dealing with the representation against adver se remarks 
will be followed: - 
(i) The representation against adverse remark(s) communicated to the employee, if 
made, is required to be disposed of finally within a period of 2 months from the date of 
its submission. This time limit is fixed keeping in view the fact that the employee 
concerned does not remain in suspense as to the fate of his representation. Delay in 
deciding such representation also causes repercussions on the cases o f promotion, 
crossing of efficiency bar etc. of the employee concerned. 
(ii) The representation should not contain any mud -slinging and baseless charges. In 
case any faculty/staff uses derogatory or un -parliamentary language in his 
representation for the expunction of adverse remarks, the same will be straightaway 
rejected and action be taken against him.

--- PAGE 105 ---
105 
 
(iii) If a representation is made by any faculty/staff against the remarks communicated to 
him, such representation should be brought to the notice of Countersigning Officer and 
his order obtained. It would be very undesirable that an officer against whose adverse 
remark(s) representation has been submitted should himself dispose o ff such a 
representation. 
(iv) It is also incumbent upon the reporting authority to send his comments on the 
representation within the time prescribed for the purpose, to obviate delay in the 
speedy disposal of representation against the adverse remarks. 
(v) Before passing final orders on a representation against adverse remark(s) , the 
comments of the reporting authority/ authorities should invariably be obtained. 
(vi) For purposes of rejection or acceptance of representation against adverse remark(s), 
there should be one authority and it should be the highest administrative authority. 
(vii) The representation or explanation against the adverse remark(s) should not be added 
to the file containing the confidential report. 
(viii) If it is felt by the highest administrative authority that the remark(s) should be toned 
down, he should make the necessary entry with proper attestation, at the appropriate 
place in the report. Past entries should not be corrected by overwriting. 
(ix) Where a patent error of fact(s) or malafide intention behind the remarks is fully 
established, the adverse remark(s) should be expunged, otherwise not. 
(x) Remarks recorded in the APAR against which no representation has been filed within 
the prescribed period or if so filed has been rejected, should not be expunged inspite 
of the fact that at some later date a succeeding authority has a different view. 
Note: The Countersigning Officer means 'the appointing authority' or the authority to which 
representation against the punishment of censure lies under the rules of the University, 
whichever is higher. 
14. Nature of Documents/Communications which Need Be Placed on Personal Files 
Apart from the APAR on the work and conduct of a faculty/staff, copies of  
documents/communications specified below should also be placed in his personal file.

--- PAGE 106 ---
106 
 
(a) All orders imposing any penalties. 
(b) All communications conveying adverse remarks. 
(c) Those letters of appreciation which deal with the outstanding nature of performance 
of an officer/official on an overall assessment on his work and conduct during the year 
in the light of the remarks recorded in his APAR. 
(d) A copy of the orders granting increments. 
(e) The copies/copy of the warning(s) which are/is not the direct outcome of APARs are 
not to be placed on the personal file without the previous approval of the 'appointing 
authority'. 
(f) Any other documents specified by the competent authority. 
Note: The term 'personal file' means in this context the collection of periodical or APARs on 
the work and conduct of an employee and copies of orders of punishment and 
appreciation letters, etc., that may, in accordance with the foregoing instructions form 
a part of this collection.

--- PAGE 107 ---
107 
 
15. Documents Which Are Not to be Placed on Personal File of the Faculty/Staff 
(a) Copies of personal letters or certificates issued by superior faculty and staff  to their 
subordinates or letters of commendation issued in recognition of any special help that 
might have been rendered by the officer on a particular occasion, e.g., a local 
exhibition, visit of a V.I.P., etc. 
(b) Letters of appreciation issued by various authorities or persons on any major event of 
work done or special contribution made by the officer towards the implementation of a 
particular scheme or successful conclusion of a campaign. 
(c) Vigilance Enquiry reports containing unsubstantiated allegation; and 
(d) Copy of simple warnings issued, unless the procedure prescribed for punishment has 
been followed. 
16. Custody of Personal Files and Authorities Competent to Convey Adverse Remarks 
in Confidential Reports  
The authorities competent to receive and convey confid ential reports and maintain 
confidential files of different categories of employees shall be as follows: 
(a) The personal files of all faculty and staff of the rank of Assistant Professor or equivalent 
and above – Executive President.  
(b) The personal files of faculty and staff/officials below rank of Assistant Professors and 
equivalent – Registrar. However, confidential file in respect of the Registrar will be held 
by the Executive President.  
(c) Files of general correspondence (i.  e other than confidential files ) in respect of all 
employees will be maintained and held by the HR Department.

--- PAGE 108 ---
108 
 
Appendix: F 
(Refers to Point No.7.1.1) 
TABLE - I 
ACADEMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (API) FOR CAREER ADVANCEMENT 
SCHEME (CAS) PROMOTIONS FOR ASSISTANT PROFESSOR, ASSOCIATE 
PROFESSOR AN D PROFESSOR AND FOR DIRECT RECRUITMENT OF 
ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR AND PROFESSOR IN UNIVERSITIES AND COLLEGES. 
Designation Direct Teaching 
Hours per week 
Assistant Professor 16 
Associate Professor 14 
Professor 14 
 
Based on the teacher’s self-assessment, API scores are proposed for (a) teaching 
related activities; domain knowledge; (b) participation in examination and evaluation; 
and (c) contribution to innovative teaching, new courses etc. The minimum API score 
required by teachers from this category is different for different levels of promotion. The 
self- assessment score should be based on objectively verifiable records. It shall be 
finalized by the screening cum evaluation / selection committee. Universities may detail 
the activities, in case institutional specificities require, adjust the weightages without 
changing the minimum total API scores required under this category. 
CATEGORY I: TEACHING, LEARNING AND EVALUATION RELATED ACTIVITIES 
Category Nature of Activity Assistant 
Professor 
Associate 
Professor 
Professor 
  Max. 
Score 
Actual 
Score 
Max. 
Score 
Actual 
Score 
Max. 
Score 
Actual 
Score 
I a. Direct Teaching 70 Actual 
hours 
spent per 
academic 
year 
÷7.5 
60 Actual 
hours 
spent per 
academic 
year 
÷7.5 
60 Actual 
hours 
spent 
per 
acade
mic 
year 
÷7.5 
 b. Examination 
duties(question 
Paper setting, 
Invigilation, 
Evaluation of 
answer scripts) 
20 Actual 
hours 
spent per 
academic 
year 
÷10 
20 Actual 
hours 
spent per 
academic 
year 
÷10 
10 Actual 
hours 
spent 
per

--- PAGE 109 ---
109 
 
as per allotment acade
mic 
year 
÷10 
 c. Innovative 
Teaching learning 
methodologies, 
Updating of 
subject 
contents/courses, 
Mentoring 
etc. 
10 Actual 
hours 
spent per 
academic 
year 
÷10 
15 Actual 
hours 
spent per 
academic 
year 
÷10 
20 Actual 
hours 
spent 
per 
acade
mic 
year 
÷10 
 
Note: 
1. Direct Teaching 16/14/14 hours per week include the Lectures/Tutorials/Practicals 
/Project Supervision/Field Work. 
2. University may prescribe minimum cut-off, say 75%, below which no scores may be 
assigned in these sub-categories. 
3. In consonance with established academic and  teaching traditions, and with a view 
to reinforcing a student-centric and caring approach the teachers are encouraged to 
work with students, beyond the structure of classroom teaching. Indicatively, this 
could entail mentoring, guiding and counseling stud ents. In particular , teachers 
would be the best placed to identify and address the needs of students who may be 
differently abled, or require assistance to improve their academic performance, or to 
overcome a disadvantage. There are no prescribed hours for such efforts, measured 
either in weeks or months, or in the context and calculation of the API scores, these 
are nevertheless important and significant activities that could be carried out by 
teachers. 
CATEGORY II: PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT, CO-CURRICULAR AND 
EXTENSION ACTIVITIES 
Based on the teacher’s self -assessment, Category II API scores are proposed for 
Professional development, co -curricular and extension activities; and related 
contributions. The minimum API required by teachers for eligibility for  promotion is 
fixed in Table II. A list of items and scores is given below. The self-assessment score 
should be based on objectively verifiable records and shall be finalized by the 
screening cum evaluation committee for the promotion of Assistant Professor to 
higher grades and selection committee for the promotion of Assistant Professor to

--- PAGE 110 ---
110 
 
Associate Professor and Associate Professor to Professor and for direct recruitment 
of Associate Professor and Professor. 
The model table below gives groups of activities and API scores. Universities may 
detail the activities or, in case institutional specificities require, adjust the weightages 
without changing the minimum total API score required under this category. 
 
Cate- 
gory 
II 
Nature of Activity Maximum 
API Score 
Actual 
score 
a. Student related co-curricular, extension and field based 
activities. 
(i) Discipline related co-curricular activities (e.g. remedial 
classes, career counselling, study visit, student 
seminar and other events.) 
 
(ii)  Other co-curricular activities (Cultural, Sports, NSS, 
NCC etc.) 
 
(iii) Extension and dissemination activities (public /popular 
lectures/talks/seminars etc.) 
15 Actual 
hours 
spent per 
academic 
year 
÷ 
10 
b. Contribution to corporate  life  and  management  of  the  
department  and institution through participation in 
academic and administrative committees and 
responsibilities. 
(i) Administrative responsibility (including as Dean / 
Principal / Chairperson / Convener / Teacher-in-
charge/similar other duties that require regular office 
hrs for its discharge) 
 
(ii) Participation in Board of Studies, Academic and 
Administrative Committees 
 
15 Actual 
hours 
spent per 
academic 
year 
÷ 
10 
c. Professional Development activities (such as  participation  
in  seminars, conferences, short term training courses, 
industrial experience, talks, lectures in refresher / faculty 
development courses, dissemination and general articles 
and any other contribution) 
 
15 Actual 
hours 
spent per 
academic 
year 
÷ 
10

--- PAGE 111 ---
111 
 
CATEGORY-III: RESEARCH AND ACADEMIC CONTRIBUTIONS 
Based on the teacher’s self -assessment, API scores are proposed for research and 
academic contributions. The minimum API scores required for teachers from this 
category are different for different levels of promotion in universities and colleges.   The 
self-assessment score shall be based on verifiable records and shall be finalized by the 
screening cum evaluation committee for the promotion of Assistant Professor to higher 
grades and Selection Committee for the promotion of Assistant Professor to Associate  
Professor and Associate Professor to Professor and for direct recruitment of Associate 
Professor and Professor. 
 
Categ
ory 
III 
Activity Faculty of Sciences / 
Engineering / 
Agriculture / 
Medical / Veterinary 
Sciences 
Faculties of Languages / 
Humanities / Arts / Social 
Sciences 
/ Library / Physical education 
/Management 
Maximum 
score for 
University / 
College 
teacher* 
(A) Research 
Papers 
published 
in: 
Refereed Journals as 
notified by the UGC# 
Refereed Journals as notified 
by the UGC# 
25 per 
Publication 
Other Reputed 
Journals as 
notified by the UGC# 
Other Reputed Journals as 
notified by the UGC # 
10 per 
Publication 
(B) Publications 
other than 
journal 
articles 
(books, 
chapters in 
books) 
Text/Reference, Books 
published by 
International 
Publishers, with 
ISBN/ISSN number as 
approved by the 
University and posted 
on its website. The list 
will be intimated to 
UGC. 
Text/Reference Books 
published by International 
Publishers, with ISBN/ISSN 
number as approved by the 
University and posted on its 
website. The list will be 
intimated to UGC. 
30 per 
Book for 
Single 
Author 
Subject Books, 
published by 
National level 
publishers, with 
ISBN/ISSN number or 
State/ Central Govt. 
Publications as 
approved by the 
University and posted 
on its website. The list 
will be intimated to 
UGC. 
Subject Books, published by 
National Level publishers, with 
ISBN/ISSN number   or   State   
/Central Govt. 
Publications as approved by 
the University and posted on 
its website. The list will be 
intimated to UGC. 
20 per 
Book for 
Single 
Author

--- PAGE 112 ---
112 
 
Subject Books, 
published by 
other local publishers, 
with ISBN/ISSN 
number as approved 
by the University and 
posted on its website. 
The list will be 
intimated to UGC. 
Subject Books, published by 
Other local publishers, with 
ISBN/ISSN number   as   
approved   by   the University   
and   posted   on   its website. 
The list will be intimated to 
UGC. 
15 per 
Book for 
Single 
Author 
Chapters in Books, 
published by 
National and 
International level 
publishers, with 
ISBN/ISSN number as 
approved by the 
University and posted 
on its website. The list 
will be intimated to 
UGC. 
Chapters in Books, published 
by National and International 
level publishers, with 
ISBN/ISSN number as 
approved by the University and 
posted on its website. The list 
will be intimated to UGC. 
Internation
al –10 
per 
Chapter 
National – 
5 per 
Chapter 
(C) RESEARCH PROJECTS 
 (C- i) Sponsor
ed 
Projects 
(a)  Major Projects with 
grants above Rs. 30 
lakhs 
Major Projects with grants 
above Rs. 5 lakhs 
20 per 
Project 
  (b)   Major Projects with 
grants above Rs. 5 lakhs 
up to Rs. 30 lakhs 
Major Projects with grants 
above Rs. 3 lakhs up to Rs. 5 
lakhs 
15 per 
Project 
  (c)  Minor Projects with 
grants above Rs. 1 lakh 
up to Rs. 5 lakhs 
Minor Projects with grants 
above Rs. 1 lakh up to Rs. 3 
lakhs 
10 per 
Project 
(C- ii) Consulta
ncy 
Projects 
Amount mobilized with a 
minimum of Rs.10 lakhs 
Amount mobilized with a 
minimum of Rs. 2 lakhs 
 
 
 
10 for 
every 
Rs.10 
lakhs 
and Rs.2 
lakhs, 
respectivel
y 
(C- iii) Projects 
Outcome 
/ 
Outputs 
Patent / Technology 
transfer / 
Product / Process 
Major Policy document 
prepared for international bodies 
like 
WHO/UNO/UNESCO/UNICEF 
etc. Central 
/ State Govt./Local Bodies 
30 for each 
Internation
al / 
20 for each 
national 
level 
output or 
patent. 
Major 
policy

--- PAGE 113 ---
113 
 
document 
of 
Internation
al bodies - 
30 
Central 
Governme
nt – 20, 
State 
Govt.-10 
Local 
bodies – 5 
(D) RESEARCH GUIDANCE 
(D- i) M.Phil. Degree awarded Degree awarded 5 per 
candidate 
(D- ii) Ph.D. Degree awarded / Thesis 
submitted 
Degree awarded / Thesis 
Submitted 
15/10 per 
candidate 
(E) Fellowships, Awards and Invited Lectures Delivered in Conferences / seminars 
(E- i) Fellowsh
ips/ 
Awards 
International 
Award/Fellowship from 
academic bodies 
International Award / Fellowship  
from academic 
bodies/associations 
15 per 
Award / 15 
per 
Fellowship 
National 
Award/Fellowship 
from academic bodies 
National Award/Fellowship from  
academic bodies/associations 
10 per 
Award / 10 
per 
Fellowship 
State/University level 
Award 
from academic bodies 
State/University level Award 
from 
academic bodies/associations 
5 Per 
Award 
(E- ii) 
 
 
Invited 
lectures / 
papers 
International level International level 7 per 
lecture / 
5 per 
paper 
presented 
National level National level 5 per 
lecture / 
3 per 
paper 
presented 
State/University level State/University level 3 per 
lecture / 
2 per 
paper 
presented 
The score under this sub-category shall be restricted to 20% of the minimum fixed for 
Category III for any 
assessment period 
(F) 
 
Development of e-learning delivery process/material 10 per 
module

--- PAGE 114 ---
114 
 
 
* Wherever relevant to any specific discipline, the API score for paper in refereed journal would 
be augmented as follows: (i) papers with impact factor less than 1 - by 5 points; (ii) papers with 
impact factor between 1 and 2 by 10 points; (iii) papers with impact factor between 2 and 5 by 
15 points; (iv) papers with impact factor between 5 and 10 by 20 points: (v) papers with impact 
factor above 10 by 25 points. The API for joint publications shall be calculated in the following 
manner: Of the total score for the relevant category of publication by the concerned teacher, 
the First and Principal / corresponding author /supervisor / mentor would share equally 70% of 
the total points and the remaining 30% would be shared equally by all other authors. 
# The University shall identify the journals subject-wise through subject expert committees and 
forward the recommendations to UGC in the format prescribed by UGC for approval of the 
UGC Standing Committee. The journals approved from this list, by the UGC Standing 
Committee, shall be included in the “List of Journals” notified by the UGC. The UGC Standing 
Committee shall give its recommendations within 60 working days of the receipt of the list from 
the University. The UGC Standing Committee may also, suo -moto, recommend journals for 
inclusion in the “List of Journals”. The clause 6.0.5 (i)  of 4th Amendment to UGC Regulations 
2016 will be strictly followed by the University. 
TABLE – II 
Minimum APIs As Provided In Table - I to be Applied for the Promotion of Teachers under 
Career Advancement Scheme (CAS) In university Departments and Colleges, And 
Weightages for Expert Assessment 
 
Category Activity Assistant 
Professor / 
Equivalent 
cadres: 
(Stage 
1 to Stage 
2) 
Assistant 
Professor / 
Equivalent 
cadres: 
(Stage 
2 to Stage 
3) 
Assistant   
Professor 
(Stage  3) to   
Assoc. 
Professor / 
equivalent 
cadres (Stage 4) 
Associate 
Professor 
(Stage   4) To 
Professor /  
equivalent 
cadres(Stage5)  
Professor 
(Stage 5) to 
Professor 
(Stage 6) 
I Teaching-
learning, 
Evaluation 
Related 
Activities 
80/Year 80/year 75/year 70/year 70/year 
II Professional 
Development 
and 
Extension 
activities 
- Minimum 
score 
50 / 
Assessment 
period 
50 / 
Assessment 
period 
50 / 
Assessment 
period 
50 / 
Assessment 
period 
100 / 
Assessment 
period

--- PAGE 115 ---
115 
 
required to be 
assessed 
cumulatively 
 
 
III 
Research and 
Academic 
Contributions- 
Minimum 
Score 
required - to 
be 
assessed 
cumulatively 
 
20 / 
Assessment 
period 
50 / 
Assessment 
period 
75 / 
Assessment 
period 
100 / 
Assessment 
period 
400 / 
Assessment 
period 
II + III Minimum total 
API 
score under 
Categories II 
and 
III* 
 
90 / 
Assessment 
period 
120 / 
Assessment 
period 
150 / 
Assessment 
period 
180 / 
Assessment 
period 
600 / 
Assessment 
period 
IV Expert 
Assessment 
System 
Screening 
cum 
Evaluation 
Committee 
Screening 
cum 
Evaluation 
Committee 
Selection 
Committee 
Selection 
Committee 
Expert 
Committee 
V Percentage 
Distribution of 
Weightage 
Points 
in the Expert 
Assessment 
(Total 
weightage = 
100. 
Minimum 
required 
for promotion 
is 
50) 
No separate 
points. 
Screening 
Committee 
to 
verify API 
scores 
No separate 
points. 
Screening 
Committee 
to 
verify API 
scores 
30% - 
Research 
Contribution 
50% - 
Assessment of 
domain 
knowledge & 
teaching 
practices. 
20% - Interview 
performance 
50%- Research 
Contribution. 
30%Assessment 
of 
domain 
knowledge & 
teaching 
practices. 
20 % - 
Interview 
performance 
50% 
- 
Research 
Contribution. 
50%- 
Performanc
e 
evaluation 
and 
other 
credentials 
by 
referral 
procedure 
 
* Teachers may score the balance of points from either Category II or Category III to achieve the minimum 
score required under Category II + III.

--- PAGE 116 ---
116 
 
TABLE – III 
Minimum Scores for APIs for direct recruitment of teachers in university departments / 
Colleges and weightages in Selection Committees to be considered along with other 
specified eligibility qualifications stipulated in the Regulation. 
 Assistant 
Professor  
(Stage 1) 
Associate Professor  
(Stage 4) 
Professor  
(Stage 5) 
Minimum API  Minimum Consolidated API score 
requirement  
Consolidated API score 
Scores Qualification 
as stipulated 
in these 
regulations 
of 300 points from categories 
II & III of APIs  (cumulative)  
requirement of 400 points 
from categories II & III of 
APIs (cumulative)  
Selection 
Committee 
criteria / 
weightages 
(Total 
Weightages = 
100) 
a) Academic 
Record and 
Research 
Performance  
(50%) 
b) Assessment of 
Domain 
Knowledge &  
Teaching 
Skills (30%) 
c) Interview 
performance 
(20%) 
a) Academic Background  
(20%) 
b) Research 
performance based on API  
score and quality of 
publications (40%)  
c) Assessment 
of Domain 
Knowledge and 
Teaching Skills 
(20%) 
d) Interview performance:  
(20%) 
a) Academic Background  
(20%) 
b) Research performance 
based on API  score and 
quality of publications 
(40%). 
c) Assessment  of
 Domain knowledge  
and Teaching Skills 
(20%). 
d) Interview 
performance:(20%)

--- PAGE 117 ---
117 
 
                                                                   Appendix: G 
                                                                        (Refers to Point No.7.1.1) 
 
 
INDUS UNIVERSITY 
 
Annual Self-Appraisal Form for the Faculty Members   
For The Year______________ 
 
(For office use only) 
Form – A 
(To be filled by the Faculty Members) 
(A) General Information 
(a) Name     : 
(b) Date of Birth    : 
(c) Address (Residential)   : 
(d) Mobile No. and E-mail  : (M )    E-mail: 
(e) Qualification    : Graduation  : 
: Post Graduation : 
: M.Phil / Ph.D : 
(f) Designation    : 
(g) College and Department  : 
(h) Area of Specialization   : 
(i) Date of Joining   : 
(i) In the institution 
(ii)In the present post  
(j) Experience (in years)   : 
(i)At the institution   : 
(ii)Total    : 
(B) Teaching and Evaluation:  
Give details in ascending order of semester and level. 
 
(a) Odd Semesters (I,III,V,VII,IX) 
Sr. 
No 
Semester and 
Branch 
Subject 
Title 
Level No. of 
hours 
Total 
strength of 
Steps taken 
for teaching

--- PAGE 118 ---
118 
 
UG/PG/M.Phil engaged 
per week 
class, and 
average 
attendance 
in your class 
of periods 
missed 
during 
absence or 
leave 
L T P 
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
Total      
L=Lecture, T=Tutorial, P=Practical 
 
(b) Even Semesters  (II,IV,VI,VIII,X) 
Sr. 
No. 
Semester and 
Branch 
Subject 
Title 
Level No. of 
hours 
engaged 
per week 
Total 
strength of 
class, and 
average 
attendance 
in your class 
Steps taken 
for teaching 
of periods 
missed 
during 
absence or 
leave 
UG/PG/M.Phil 
L T P 
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
Total      
  L=Lecture,   T=Tutorial,   P=Practical 
 
(c) Attach details of course teaching plan (theory and practices), synopsis of lectures, books 
and reading material supplied to student: 
(d) Attach details of participation in the following: 
i. Assessment of Home Assignments 
ii. Internal Evaluation 
iii. Paper Setting

--- PAGE 119 ---
119 
 
iv. Conduct of Examinations 
v. Evaluation of Dissertation etc. 
vi. University Evaluation 
vii. Result Analysis 
(e) Completed the coursework of the subjects taught by you fully      Yes                    No                        
(f) Intentionally refrained from carrying out examination duty.            Yes                     No              
 
(C) Attach details of Innovations / Contribution in Teaching and Evaluation: 
(a) Design of curriculum 
(b) Teaching methods 
(c) Laboratory experiments 
(d) Preparation of resource material including books, reading materials, laboratory 
manuals etc. 
(e) Evaluation methods 
(f) Remedial Teaching 
(g) Student Counselling 
(h) Any other 
 
(D) Improvement of Professional Competence: 
Provide details pertaining to refresher courses / orientation programme attended, 
participation in summer schools, workshops, seminars, symposia including Open 
University courses, M.Phil, Ph.D etc. 
Sr. 
No. 
Name Type of 
Programme 
Organizer 
and 
Venue 
Duration No. 
of 
Days 
Institution / 
State / National 
/ International 
       
       
       
       
       
       
(E) Research Contribution: 
(a) Project Work Guidance:  
Sr. 
No. 
Title of Project Name of Student(s) Current Status

--- PAGE 120 ---
120 
 
    
    
    
    
 
(b) Number of Students: 
 Enrolled at the beginning of the 
year 
Registered during 
the year 
Completed during 
the year 
M.Phil    
Ph.D    
 
(c) No. of Research Papers / Books / Chapters published: 
Sr. 
No. 
Title Name of 
Journal/Books 
with details of 
Issue, 
Volume, Page 
No., ISSN 
/ISBN 
Number etc. 
Mention all the 
authors’ name in 
the sequence as 
it appears in the 
paper/book 
International 
/ National 
college / 
Journal / 
Books 
Whether 
Peer 
Reviewed  
 
Mean 
impact 
factor of 
journal  
(last 5 
years) 
       
       
       
       
 
(d) Research Projects/Consultancy Projects: 
Sr. 
No. 
Title Name of the funding 
agency and amount 
Duration Current 
status

--- PAGE 121 ---
121 
 
(e) Details of Seminars, Conferences, Workshop, STTP, Symposia, Refresher 
courses organized: 
Sr. 
No 
Name Type of 
Programme 
Organizer 
and 
Venue 
Duration No. of 
Days 
Institution / 
State / 
National / 
International 
From To 
       
       
       
 
(f) Completed Projects: Quality Evaluation: 
Sr. 
No. 
Title Agency Period Grant 
Amount 
Mobilized 
Outcome 
(Technology 
Transfer/Produc
t/Process) 
      
      
      
 
(g) Project Outcomes/Outputs: 
Sr. 
No. 
Title Agency Period Grant Amount 
Mobilized 
Whether 
Policy 
Document
s/Patent/T
echnology 
Transfer/P
roduct/Pro
cess as 
Outcome) 
      
      
      
 
(h) Patents taken, if any, give a brief description:

--- PAGE 122 ---
122 
 
(i) Give details of Membership of Professional Bodies, Editorship of Journals and 
Review of Research Papers etc: 
 
(F) Extension Work / Community Service: 
a) Give a short account of your contribution to: 
(i) Community work such as values of national integration, humanism, peace, 
scientific temper, flood or drought relief, career counselling etc. 
(ii) National Literacy Mission 
b) Position held / leadership role played in organizations linked with extension 
work: 
 
(G) Invited Guest Lectures and Chairmanships at National or International 
Conference / Seminar etc.: 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Title of Lecture / 
Academic Session 
Title of 
Conference / 
Seminar etc. 
Organized by Whether 
International / 
National 
     
     
     
 
(H) Other Duties:  
Sr. 
No. 
Semester 
and Branch 
Name 
of 
Duty 
Level No. of 
Hours 
Engaged 
per Week 
Total 
Strength for 
which 
Assignment 
Carried out, 
if Applicable 
Remarks  
UG/PG/M.Phil 
       
       
Total    
 
(I) Co-Curricular, Extension And Professional Development Related Activities: 
i. Student related co-curricular, extension and field based activities (such as 
extension work through NSS/NCC and other channels, cultural activities,

--- PAGE 123 ---
123 
 
subject related events,student welfare, enchrichment of campus life, 
community work, etc: 
ii. Contribution to management of the department/university through participation 
in academic and administrative committees and responsibilities. Give details: 
 
(J) Give a short account of your contribution to: 
a) College / University / Institution 
b) Co-Curricular Activities 
c) Enrichment of campus life (hostels, sports, games, culture activities) 
d) Students Welfare and Discipline 
e) Membership / Participation in Bodies / Committees on Education and National 
Development 
f) Professional Organizations of Teachers 
 
(K)  General Details: 
State brief assessment of your performance indicating: 
a. Achievement 
b. Difficulties faced 
c. Suggestions for improvement 
 
(                                             ) 
Signature of the Faculty Member 
 
Note: All data entered should be submitted with all relevant proof. 
 
Verification of factual data: 
(A) General Information 
(B) Teaching and Evaluation 
(C) Details of Innovations / Contribution in Teaching and Evaluation 
(D) Improvement of Professional Competence 
(E) Research Contribution 
(F) Extension Work / Community Service 
(G) Contribution 
 
(                                                  ) 
Signature of the HOD / Principal

--- PAGE 124 ---
124 
 
Note: HOD / Principal should clearly state under “(e)Research contribution” as to how 
many research papers are published and whether the teacher has attempted for getting a 
research project or not? 
 
FORM-B 
(To be filled in by the Reporting Officer) 
 
Chairperson/Director should CIRCLE their ratings. If the faculty member does not agree with 
the rating, place a SQUARE around the rating the faculty member considers appropriate. 
Place a TRIANGLE around the mid – rating for the department (HOD or Centre / Division In-
charge) on each item. 
 
I. TEACHING / INSTRUCTIONAL WORK: 
Effectiveness in teaching undergraduates and / or graduates; in other instructional 
activities; e.g. independent study (excluding dissertations and thesis); student advisement 
and / or counselling etc. 
OVERALL EFFECTIVENESS IN TEACHING 
RATING: 
Unsatisfactory  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9         
Outstanding 
Not Rated 
Not Applicable        Marks[     /25] 
 
II. SUPERVISORY SUPPORT / RESEARCH: 
Effectiveness in project / dissertation supervision; Publications, etc; non-credit teaching, 
instructional development, student advisement and / or counselling etc. 
OVERALL EFFECTIVENESS IN SUPERVISORY SUPORT / RESEARCH 
RATING: 
Unsatisfactory  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9         
Outstanding 
Not Rated 
Not Applicable        Marks[     /05] 
 
 
III. PERSONAL QUALITY IMPROVEMENT /SCHOLARLY / CREATIVE ACTIVITIES:

--- PAGE 125 ---
125 
 
Aptitude in personal development, individual research, research publication / books / 
articles / monographs etc 
OVERALL EFFECTIVENESS IN PERSONAL / SCHOLARLY / CREATIVE ACTIVITIES 
RATING: 
Unsatisfactory  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9         
Outstanding 
Not Rated 
Not Applicable        Marks[     /10] 
 
IV. SERVICES: 
Effectiveness in administrative assignments, anticipated activities within and outside of the 
Institute.  
Effectiveness in service within the Institute, e.g Departmental and Institute committees; in 
service outside of the institu te, e.g assigned professional service consultation, professional 
service to professional or community organizations; in administrative assignments. 
OVERALL EFFECTIVENESS IN ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES 
RATING: 
Unsatisfactory  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9         
Outstanding 
Not Rated 
Not Applicable        Marks [     /10] 
 
A) Total Marks obtained out of 50                =                                                   
 
V. ATTITUDE AND INTERPERSONAL SKILLS: 
(Give rating on a five points scale with ‘5’being the best and ‘1’ for the poorest) 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Particulars Scale 
1 Initiative: a self-starter, able to work without supervision  
2 Responsibility and Punctuality: understands duties, accepts responsibilities 
readily, arrives on time, Generally available for students during working 
hours. 
 
3 Commitment: Committed to his work

--- PAGE 126 ---
126 
 
4 Loyalty: Supports and follows institute’s policies and guidelines  
5 Development: Keeps knowledge up to date  
6 Oral / written communication: speaks effectively with supervisor, colleagues 
and students, written communication 
 
7 Team work: Effective in a team  
8 Leadership: gives clear directions and listens to co-workers  
9 Relationship with fellow faculty, staff and students.  
10 Maturity and Temperament  
B) Total Marks obtained out of 50  
 Total A + B =                                                                                                                         
(Out of 100 Marks) 
 
VI. BRIEF COMMENTS BY THE REPORTING OFFICER 
(i) Has he been responsible for any outstanding work during the period under report 
meriting special consideration? If so elaborate. 
 
 
(ii) Adverse remark, if any, communicated orally. (Details to be provided) 
 
 
(iii) Adverse remark, if any, communicated in writing. (Details to be provided) 
 
 
(iv) General assessment of integrity, character and temperament. 
 
 
(v) Any general comments on any issue not bought out above.

--- PAGE 127 ---
127 
 
BRIEF COMMENTS BY THE REPORTING OFFICER 
OVERALL 
APPRAISAL 
Outstanding 
(81-100) 
Very Good 
(71-80) 
Good 
(61-70) 
Normal 
(51-60) 
Poor 
(0-50) 
 
 
 
     
 
(                                                     ) 
Signature of the Reporting Officer 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
TO BE FILLED IN BY REVIEWING OFFICER 
 
I agree / do not agree with the evaluation of the Reporting Officer and I am recording my 
observations below: 
 
1. Name of the Reviewing Officer: __________________________ 
 
 
2. Designation   : ___________________________ 
 
 
 
(Signature of the Reviewing Officer) 
 
Date: 
 
 
(Signature of Counter Signing Officer (Director)) 
Date: 
 
 
 
 
REMEARKS OF THE REVIEWING OFFICER (DIRECTOR)

--- PAGE 128 ---
128 
 
1. Length of service under the reviewing officer from…………………. to………………. 
2. Do you agree with the account of the faculty’s work mentioned in this form? Is there 
anything you wish to modify or add? 
3. Do you agree with the marking and assessment of the reporting officer? Is there any 
important difference between them, please comment. 
4. Assessment of the faculty’s overall worth/ work in his particular grade irrespective of age. 
(Please initial and put a ring round the appropriate mark below and strike out whatever is 
inapplicable). 
 
Outstanding 
 
Very Good 
 
Good 
 
Normal 
 
Poor 
 
(“Outstanding” staff should be graded only if exceptional qualities and performances are 
noticed. Grounds for giving such a grading should be justified in the general remarks). 
 
(Similarly, if marking “Normal” and below, please elaborate under general remarks). 
 
5. Recommendation (In case of those on probation, please put initial and put a ring round the 
appropriate mark below and strike out whatever is inapplicable). 
 
In case of those who are on Probation: 
(a) Closure of Probation 
(b) Extension of Probation 
(c) Termination of Service 
 
6. What are the strengths of the faculty which could be gainfully utilized in the University?

--- PAGE 129 ---
129 
 
7. If the grading is “Good” or below would you recommend a change of assignment? If so, 
please elaborate indicating the type of job and area he is the best suited for. 
 
 
 
General Remarks: 
 
 
Date:          Signature: 
           Name in capital: 
           Designation: 
 
 
REMARKS OF THE COUNTERSIGNING OFFICER (EXECUTIVE PRESIDENT) 
1. General remarks by the Countersigning Officer including a note of any particular 
achievement. 
 
 
2. Assessment of Integrity. 
 
 
3. Do you agree with the overall assessment by the Reviewing Officer? If not, indicate your 
assessment with reasons, wherever necessary. 
 
 
4. Adverse remarks, if any, to be communicated to assesse. 
 
 
 
Date:          Signature: 
           Name in capital: 
           Designation: 
 
 
COMMUNICATION OF ADVERSE REMARKS IS TO BE DONE

--- PAGE 130 ---
130 
 
BY THE REVIEWING AUTHORITY 
 
1. Remarks communicated on:                      . . . . . . . . . . . .   
(Copy enclosed) 
 
2. Representation, if any, received on:          . . . . . . . . . . .  
(Copy enclosed)  
 
3. Modification of the assessment / Overall 
grading or any other remarks proposed by 
the Countersigning Officer based on the 
points raised in the representation 
 
         Signature 
 
Date:       Name in Capital 
 
         Designation 
 
CONSIDERATION OF THE APPEAL 
 
Decision of the Appellate Authority with regard 
to the adverse remarks communicated to the 
officer taking into account all the relevant 
aspects indicated in point no. 2.4.3 & 2.4.4 
above. 
 
Date:                         Signature  
 
         Name in Capitals 
 
         Designation

--- PAGE 131 ---
131 
 
 Appendix: H 
(Refers to Point No. 7.2.1) 
 
 
 
 
Annual Self-Appraisal Form for the Lab. Staff  
For the Year______________ 
 
 
1.  Name : 
2.  Designation : 
3.  Qualification :  
4.  Higher qualification: 
     acquired during this  
     period       
5. Department: 
 
6.  Date of Initial appointment : 
1. Date of posting to the  
      present position : 
8.Date & Present scale of Pay Rs: 
 
9. Present Basic Pay Rs: 
 
10. Whether probation closed or not: 
 
11. (i). Various Leaves taken during the year (Administrative): 
 
      (ii). Punctuality in Office (Administrative) : 
 
 
1. SELF REPORT BY THE EMPLOYEE 
1.1. Brief summary about nature of job, duties and significant contributions during the 
period of reporting:  
 
1.2. Any outstanding work carried out during the year.

--- PAGE 132 ---
132 
 
1.3. If, in your opinion, you were unable to achieve the expected quality or quantity of 
performance with respect to any aspect of your work, indicate briefly your reasons 
why it happened (in 50 words)  
 
 
1.4. Strength and weaknesses (own assessment):  
 
 
1.5. Details of Industrial Training 
 
Sr. No.              Place of Training Period of Training Nature of   
Training 
    
    
 
1.6. Highlight how you have contributed in improving and enriching student’s experience 
on the campus: 
 
 
1.7. What additional tasks / duties / responsibilities you would like to take in the next year: 
 
 
1.8. Student related co-curricular, extension and field based activities (such as extension 
work through NSS/NCC and other channels, cultural activities, subject related 
events, student’s welfare, enrichment of campus life, community work, etc.): 
 
 
1.9. What additional support (training / infrastructure) you expect from management in 
achieving your additional roles / responsibilities mentioned at Sr. No. 1.7: 
 
 
 
1.10. Any contribution towards income generation / cost saving?

--- PAGE 133 ---
133 
 
2. ASSESSMENT BY THE REPORTING OFFICER 
 
Report on:                                                              Department:                                            
 
Report for the period:                                             From:                             To:                                             
 
Length of service under the Assessor:                   From:                             To:  
 
Reporting Officer’s name in capitals  
 
Designation: 
 
 
2.1. GENERAL REMARKS: 
 
Do you agree with the account of the work carried out by the concerned or is there 
anything you wish to modify or add? If you have any marking of poor or bad on next 
page, please elaborate.  
 
 
2.2. ASSESSMENT OF QUALITIES 
 
QUALITIES OUTSTANDING 
(81-100) 
VERY 
GOOD 
(71-80) 
GOOD 
(61-70) 
NORMAL 
(51-60) 
POOR 
(0-50) 
 
Attitude to 
work 
Accepts all jobs 
without 
complaint 
 
 
 
Accepts all 
jobs bust 
must be 
convinced 
sometimes 
Does all 
work 
Does some 
work but has 
some 
excuses 
Avoids work 
 
Initiative 
Looks for work 
 
 
Does more 
than his 
share 
 
 
Does his 
work but no 
more 
Prefers to 
idle 
Hardly ever 
does 
anything

--- PAGE 134 ---
134 
 
 
Accuracy  
Exceptionally 
accurate: no 
rejections. 
Takes extra 
care to handle 
machine tools, 
typing machine, 
etc. well (as 
relevant) 
 
 
Usually very 
accurate. 
Very few 
rejects. 
Handles 
tools, typing 
machines 
etc well (as 
relevant) 
 
 
 
Normal 
accuracy. 
Takes 
normal care 
of 
machines 
tools, 
typing etc. 
Some 
rejects, 
spoils job 
often. 
Doesn’t 
handle 
machines 
tools typing 
etc properly 
Clumsy. 
Many errors. 
Large 
numbers of 
rejects, 
Spoils job 
often 
 
Job 
knowledge 
and 
intelligence 
Knows his job 
thoroughly: Very 
intelligent 
 
 
 
Has good 
knowledge 
of jobs. 
Handles 
difficult jobs 
 
 
 
Has 
sufficient 
knowledge 
and 
intelligence 
Needs more 
knowledge 
and must 
improve 
Very poor or 
no 
knowledge. 
Dull 
 
Ability 
Can handle 
difficult jobs 
efficiently. 
Comes up with 
new ideas to 
save time and 
money very 
often 
 
Good ability 
to handle 
difficult jobs. 
Grasps new 
ideas quickly 
Does 
routine 
work well 
Very rarely 
have any 
new ideas. 
Cannot be 
depended 
Cannot 
handle any 
job. Needs 
constant 
supervision 
 
Quantity 
Unusually fast 
worker 
 
 
 
Above 
average 
production 
of work 
Consistent 
average 
volume of 
work 
Works often 
slow 
Slow worker 
 
Punctuality 
Always on job 
even if 
inconvenient. 
Very  punctual 
Seldom 
takes time 
off. Gives 
sufficient 
notice for 
leave 
Normal 
attendance. 
Gives good 
reasons for 
absence 
Takes off 
often. Does 
not give 
sufficient 
notice 
Very poor in 
attendance 
and remains 
absent with 
poor 
excuses 
 
Co-
operation 
Highly 
cooperative and 
well liked 
Goes out of 
his way to 
co-operate 
quite often 
Gets along 
well with all 
Could be 
more helpful 
Shows 
reluctance to 
co-operate

--- PAGE 135 ---
135 
 
 
Integrity 
Very High Dependable  
 
 
Nothing 
adverse. 
Average 
 
 
Sometimes 
doubtful 
Poor 
 
Discipline  
Highly 
disciplined. 
Conscious of 
responsibilities. 
Carriers out of 
all takes 
enthusiastically 
 
 
Quite 
responsible 
and well 
discipline  
Amenable 
to discipline  
Difficult to 
handle 
sometimes. 
Needs to be 
told to do his 
work. Some 
times 
refuses. 
Quarrelsome
, indiscipline, 
disobedient  
 
 
Name & signature of Reporting Officer 
______________________________________________ 
 
2.3. Has he been responsible for any 
outstanding work during the period under 
report meriting special consideration? if 
so, elaborate. 
 
 
2.4. Has he been reprimanded for indifferent 
work or for other causes during the 
period under report? if so, indicate brief 
particulars. 
 
 
2.4.1. General assessment of 
integrity, character and 
temperament 
 
 
2.4.2. Defects, if any, in character, 
including indebtedness etc.

--- PAGE 136 ---
136 
 
which; may interfere with his 
efficiency. 
 
 
2.4.3. Adverse remarks, if any, 
communicated orally. (Details to 
be provided) 
 
2.4.4. Adverse remarks, if any, 
communicated in writing. (De tails 
to be provided) 
 
2.5. Make any general comments on any 
character not brought out above. 
 
OVEARALL 
APPRAISAL 
Outstanding 
(81-100) 
Very Good 
(71-80) 
Good  
(61-70) 
Normal 
(51-60) 
Poor 
(0-50) 
      
 
 
 
Signature 
 
Date:                                                                          Name in Capital 
Designation

--- PAGE 137 ---
137 
 
3. REMARKS OF THE REVIEWING OFFICER 
 
 
3.1. Length of service under the Reviewing 
Officer: 
 
3.2. Do you agree with the account of the 
staff’s work of this form? Is there anything 
you wish to modify or add? 
 
3.3. Do you agree with the marking and 
assessment of the reporting officer? if 
there are any important difference 
between them, please comment. 
 
3.4. Assessment of the staff’s overall worth in 
his particular grade irrespective of age. 
(Please initial and put a ring round the 
appropriate mark below and strike out 
whatever is inapplicable). You may follow 
the guidelines issued in the regard. 
Outstanding 
Very Good 
Good 
Normal 
Poor 
 
(An officer should be graded 
“Outstanding” only if exceptional 
qualities and performances are 
noticed. Grounds for giving such a 
grading should be brought out in the 
General Remarks)

--- PAGE 138 ---
138 
 
(Similarly, if marking is “Normal”: or 
below, please elaborate under 
General Remarks) 
3.5. What are the strengths of the faculty 
which could be gainfully utilized in the 
organization? 
 
3.6. If the grading is “Normal” or below would 
you recommend a change of 
assignment? if so, please elaborate 
indicating the type of job and area he is 
the best suited for: 
 
 
General Remarks: 
 
  
Signature  
Date:  
        Name in Capital 
 
        Designation 
 
 
4. REMARKS OF THE COUNTERSIGNING OFFICER 
 
4.1. General remarks by the countersigning 
officer including a note of any particular 
achievement 
 
4.2. Assessment of integrity 
 
4.3. Do you  agree with the overall 
assessment by the Reviewing officer? if 
not, indicate your assessment with 
reasons wherever necessary.

--- PAGE 139 ---
139 
 
 
4.4. Adverse remarks, if any, to be 
communicated to assesse. 
 
Signature  
Date:  
        Name in Capital 
 
        Designation 
 
5. COMMUNICATION OF ADVERSE REMARKS IS TO BE DONE BY THE REVIEWING 
AUTHORITY 
 
5.1. Remarks communicated on:                      . . . . . . . . . .   
(Copy enclosed) 
 
 
5.2. Representation, if any, received on:          . . . . . . . . .  
(Copy enclosed)  
 
 
5.3. Modification of the assessment / Overall 
grading or any other remarks proposed 
by the Countersigning Officer based on 
the points raised in the representation 
 
         Signature 
 
Date:       Name in Capital 
 
         Designation 
 
 
 
 
6. CONSIDERATION OF THE APPEAL

--- PAGE 140 ---
140 
 
 
6.1. Decision of the Appellate Authority with 
regard to the adverse remarks 
communicated to the officer taking into 
account all the relevant aspects indicated 
in point no. 2.4.3 & 2.4.4 above. 
 
Date:                         Signature  
 
         Name in Capitals 
 
         Designation

--- PAGE 141 ---
141 
 
      Appendix: I 
     (Refers to Point No. 7.2.1) 
 
 
Annual Self-Appraisal Form for the Administrative Staff 
For the Year______________ 
 
 
 
1.  Name : 2.  Designation : 
3.  Qualification :  
4.  Higher qualification: 
     acquired during this  
     period       
6. Department: 
 
6.  Date of Initial appointment : 
2. Date of posting to the  
      present position : 
8.  Date & Present scale of Pay Rs 
 
9.  Present Basic Pay Rs: 
 
10. Whether probation closed or not: 
 
 
11. (i). Various Leaves taken during the year (Administrative): 
 
      (ii). Punctuality in Office (Administrative): 
 
 
1. SELF REPORT BY THE STAFF MEMBER 
 
1.1. Brief summary about nature of job, duties and significant contributions during the 
period of   reporting:

--- PAGE 142 ---
142 
 
1.2. If, in your opinion, you were unable to achieve the expected quality or quantity of 
performance with respect to any aspect of your work, indicate briefly your reasons 
why it happened (in 50 words). 
 
1.3. Details of Industrial Training taken during the Year (During your tenure in the Institute 
/ during the year) 
Sr. 
No.              
Place of Training Period of Training Nature of          Training 
    
    
    
    
 
1.4. Highlight how you have contributed in improving and enriching student’s experience 
on the campus: 
 
1.5. Highlight special achievements made by you during the year in achieving 
Department objectives or Institute’s objectives: 
 
1.6. Student related co-curricular, extension and field based activities (such as extension 
work through NSS/NCC and other channels, cultural activities, subject related 
events, students’ welfare, enrichment of campus life, community work, etc.): 
 
1.7.  What additional tasks / duties / responsibilities you would like to take in the next 
year: 
 
1.8. What additional support (training / infrastructure) you expect from management in 
achieving your additional roles / responsibilities mentioned at Sr. No. 1.7: 
 
1.9.  Any contribution towards income generation/ cost saving? 
 
 
Date:         Signature of Staff member

--- PAGE 143 ---
143 
 
2. ASSESSMENT BY THE REPORTING OFFICER 
 
 
Report on :                                                              Department :                                            
 
 
Report for the period From :                                                    to                                             
 
 
Length of service under the Assessor From                            to  
 
 
Reporting Officer’s name in capitals  
 
 
Designation : 
 
 
2.1. ASSESSMENT OF QUALITIES 
 
QUALITIES OUTSTANDING  
(81-100) 
VERY 
GOOD 
(71-80) 
GOOD  
(61-70) 
NORMAL 
(51-60) 
POOR 
(0-50) 
 
Attitude 
towards 
work 
Accepts all jobs 
without 
complaint 
 
 
Accepts all 
jobs but 
must be 
convinced 
sometimes 
Does all 
work 
Does some 
work but 
has some 
excuses 
Avoids work 
 
Initiative 
Looks for work 
 
 
Does more 
than  his 
share 
Does his 
work but no 
more 
Prefers to 
idle 
Hardly ever 
does 
anything 
 
Accuracy  
Exceptionally 
accurate: no 
rejections. 
Usually very 
accurate. 
Very few 
Normal 
accuracy. 
Takes 
Some 
rejects, 
spoils job 
Clumsy. 
Many errors. 
Large

--- PAGE 144 ---
144 
 
Takes extra 
care to handle 
office 
equipments, 
computers, etc. 
well  (as 
relevant) 
 
rejects. 
Handles 
office 
equipments, 
computer 
etc. well (as 
relevant) 
normal care 
of office 
equipments, 
computer  
etc. 
often. 
Doesn’t 
handle 
office 
equipments, 
computer  
etc. properly 
numbers of 
rejects. 
Spoils job 
often 
 
Job 
knowledge 
and 
intelligence 
Knows his job 
thoroughly: Very 
intelligent 
 
 
Has good 
knowledge 
of jobs. 
Handles 
difficult jobs 
Has 
sufficient 
knowledge 
and 
intelligence 
Needs more 
knowledge 
and must 
improve 
Very poor or 
no 
knowledge. 
Dull 
 
Ability 
Can handle 
difficult jobs 
efficiently. 
Comes up with 
new ideas to 
save time and 
money very 
often 
Good ability 
to handle 
difficult jobs. 
Grasps new 
ideas 
quickly 
Does 
routine work 
well 
Very rarely 
have any 
new ideas. 
Cannot be 
Depended 
Cannot 
handle any 
job. Needs 
constant 
supervision 
 
Quantity 
Unusually fast 
worker 
 
 
Above 
average 
production 
of work 
Consistent 
average 
volume of 
work 
Works but 
often slow 
Slow worker 
 
Punctuality 
Always on job 
even if 
inconvenient. 
Very  punctual 
Seldom 
takes time 
off. Gives 
sufficient 
notice for 
leave 
Normal 
attendance. 
Gives good 
reasons for 
absence 
Takes off 
often. Does 
not give 
sufficient 
notice 
Very poor in 
attendance 
and remains 
absent with 
poor excuses 
 
 
Co-
operation 
Highly 
cooperative and 
well liked 
Goes out of 
his way to 
Gets along 
well with all 
Could be 
more helpful 
Shows 
reluctance to 
co-operate

--- PAGE 145 ---
145 
 
co-operate 
quite often 
Integrity 
 
Very High 
 
 
 
Dependable  
 
 
Nothing 
adverse. 
Average 
Sometimes 
doubtful 
Poor 
 
Discipline  
Highly 
disciplined. 
Conscious of 
responsibilities. 
Carries out of all 
takes 
enthusiastically 
Quite 
responsible 
and well 
disciplined  
Amenable 
to discipline  
Difficult to 
handle 
sometimes. 
Needs to be 
told to do 
his work. 
Some times 
refuses. 
Quarrelsome, 
indiscipline, 
disobedient  
 
 
Name  & Signature of Reporting Officer 
______________________________________________ 
 
 
2.2. Has he been responsible for any 
outstanding work during the period 
under report meriting special 
consideration? if so, elaborate. 
 
2.3. Has he been reprimanded for 
indifferent work or for other causes 
during the period under report? if so, 
indicate brief particulars. 
 
2.3.1. General assessment of 
integrity, character and 
temperament 
2.3.2. Defects, if any, in character, 
including indebtedness etc.

--- PAGE 146 ---
146 
 
which; may  interfere with his 
efficiency. 
2.3.3. Adverse remarks, if any, 
communicated orally. (Details 
to be provided) 
2.3.4. Adverse remarks, if  any, 
communicated in writing. 
(Details to be provided) 
 
2.4. Make any general comments on any 
character not brought out above. 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature 
Date:                                                                          Name in Capitals 
Designation  
 
  
OVEARALL 
APPRAISAL 
Outstanding 
(81-100) 
Very Good 
(71-80) 
Good  
(61-70) 
Normal 
(51-60) 
Poor 
(0-50)

--- PAGE 147 ---
147 
 
3. REMARKS OF THE REVIEWING OFFICER 
 
 
3.1. Length of service under the Reviewing 
Officer: 
 
3.2. Do you agree with the account of the 
staff’s work of this form? Is there 
anything you wish to modify or add? 
 
3.3. Do you agree with the marking and 
assessment of the reporting officer? Is 
there any important difference 
between them, please comment? 
 
3.4. Assessment of the staff’s overall worth 
in his particular grade irrespective of 
age. (Please initial and put a ring 
round the appropriate mark below and 
strike out whatever is inapplicable).  
You may follow the guidelines issued in 
the regard. 
 
Outstanding 
Very Good 
Good 
Normal 
Poor 
(An officer should be graded 
“Outstanding” only if exceptional 
qualities and performances are 
noticed. Grounds for giving such a 
grading should be brought out in the 
General Remarks)

--- PAGE 148 ---
148 
 
3.5. Recommendation (Please initial and 
put a ring round the appropriate mark 
below and strike out whatever is 
inapplicable) 
 
In the case of those who are on Probation 
 
(a) Closure of Probation 
 
(b) Extension of Probation by 
 
(c) Termination of Service  
 
3.6. What are the strengths of the staff 
member which could be gainfully 
utilized in the organization? 
 
 
3.7. If the grading is “Normal” or below 
would you recommend a change of 
assignment? If so please elaborate 
indicating the type of job and area he 
is the best suited for: 
 
 
General Remarks: 
 
 
 
 
Signature  
Date:  
        Name in Capitals 
 
        Designation 
 
4. REMARKS OF THE COUNTERSIGNING OFFICER

--- PAGE 149 ---
149 
 
 
 
4.1. General remarks by the 
countersigning officer including a note 
of any particular achievement 
 
4.2. Assessment of integrity 
 
4.3. Do you agree with the overall 
assessment by the Reviewing Officer? 
If not, indicate your assessment with 
reasons wherever necessary. 
 
4.4. Adverse remarks, if any, to be 
communicated to assessee. 
 
         
Signature  
Date:  
        Name in Capitals 
 
        Designation 
 
5. COMMUNICATION OF ADVERSE REMARKS IS TO BE DONE BY THE REVIEWING 
AUTHORITY 
 
5.1. Remarks communicated on:                            . . . . . . . . .  
(Copy enclosed) 
 
 
5.2. Representation, if any, received on:               . . . . . . . . ..   
(Copy enclosed)

--- PAGE 150 ---
150 
 
5.3. Modification of the assessment / 
Overall grading or any other remarks 
proposed by the Countersigning Officer 
based on the points raised in the 
representation 
 
 
         Signature 
 
Date:        Name in Capitals 
 
         Designation 
 
 
6. CONSIDERATION OF THE APPEAL 
 
6.1. Decision of the Appellate Authority with regard to the adverse remarks communicated 
to the officer taking into account all the relevant aspects indicated in point no. 2.3.3 & 
2.3.4 above 
 
 
Date:         Signature  
 
        Name in Capitals 
 
        Designation 
 
To be signed by the Director 
 
        Signature 
 
Date:        Name in capitals 
 
        Designation

--- PAGE 151 ---
151 
 
Appendix: J 
          (Refers to Point No. 9.3) 
 
EXIT FEEDBACK 
 
i. Please feel free to give your frank feedback as it will be treated strictly confidential. This will not have 
any bearing on the settlement of your account. 
ii. Kindly put this in the envelope and seal yourself. It will be opened, read and evaluated only by the 
Associate President and Executive President for the purpose of improvement of the institute/university. 
 
Request to give your genuine opinion on the following areas:  
 
1. Reason for leaving the Institute: 
2. Work you enjoyed most while working in the institute: 
3. Work put you in difficult situation while working in the institute: 
4. Your experience with other teaching faculty colleagues of your Dept.: 
5. Your experience with the teaching faculty colleagues of other Depts.: 
6. Your experience with the HoD in terms of guidance and your development: 
7. Your experience with the Administration Dept.: 
8. Your opinion about the infrastructure facilities and technological aids available in the institute 
9. Your general assessment about the students-of the institute:

--- PAGE 152 ---
152 
 
10. Your experience with canteen of the institute: 
11. Your suggestions/recommendations for the institute to improve the qualit y of education and other 
services: 
 
Name: _________________   ___________  
(Signature) 
Designation:           
 
Date of Joining Indus University:      Date: 
Dept./Institute: 
 
.

--- PAGE 153 ---
153 
 
                                   Annexure 
(Refers to Para 7 of Appendix E) 
 
CHANNEL OF REPORTING 
FACULTY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHANNEL OF REPORTING  
ADMINISTRATIVE/SUPPORT/LABORATORY STAFF 
Sr. 
No 
Designation of 
Assesse 
Reporting 
Officer 
Reviewing Officer Countersigning 
Officer 
Remarks 
1 Dean Executive President 
 
 
2 Director Executive President 
 
 
2 HOD Director Executive President 
 
 
3 Professor HOD Director Executive President  
4  
Associate        Pr
ofessor 
HOD Director Executive President  
5  Visiting Faculty HOD Director Executive President As & 
when 
required 
6  Adjunct Faculty HOD Director Executive President As & 
when 
required 
7 Assistant Professor  HOD Director Executive President  
10 Lecturer HOD Director Executive President  
  Assistant 
Lecturer  
HOD Director Executive President  
11  
Academic      As
sociate 
HOD Director Executive President  
12  
Teaching  Associ
ate 
HOD Director Executive President

--- PAGE 154 ---
154 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Designation of Assesse Reporting Officer Reviewing 
Officer 
Countersigning 
Officer 
Remarks 
1 Registrar  Executive President 
2 Joint Registrar/Chief 
Administrative Officer 
Registrar Executive President 
 
 
3 Assistant Registrar/Sr. 
Administrative Officer 
Registrar  Executive President 
 
 
4 Chief Finance and 
Accounts Officer  
Executive President 
 
 
5 Controller of 
Examinations 
Registrar  Executive President  
6 Deputy  Controller of 
Examinations 
 Controller of 
Examinations 
Registrar Executive 
President 
 
7 Administrative  
Coordinator 
Registrar  Executive President  
8 Office Superintendent 
(HR) 
Assistant Manager 
(HR) 
Registrar  Executive 
President  
9 Office Superintendent 
(Admin) 
Joint Registrar Registrar Executive 
President  
10 Office Superintendent 
(Accounts) 
Chief Finance & 
Accounts Officer 
Registrar Executive 
President  
11 Head-Corporate Affairs Registrar  Executive President  
12 Manager-Training & 
Placement Head-Corporate 
Affairs 
Registrar  Executive 
President  
13 Manager-Systems Registrar  Executive President  
14 Assistant Manager (HR) Registrar  Executive President  
15 Examination 
Superintendent 
Controller 
Examinations Registrar Executive 
President 
 
16 IT Engineer Manager-Systems Registrar Executive 
President 
 
17 Programme Engineer Manager-Systems Registrar Executive 
President 
 
18 Administrative 
Coordinator (IDEA) HOD Director IDEA Executive 
President  
19 System Operator Manager-Systems Registrar  Executive 
President 
 
20 Programmer Manager-Systems Registrar  Executive 
President 
 
21 
Hostel Warden Assistant Registrar 
for Boys Hostel and 
Administrative Co-
coordinator for Girls 
Hostel  
Registrar  Executive 
President 
 
22 Technical Assistant-
Systems 
Manager-Systems Registrar  Executive 
President 
 
23 Receptionist Joint Registrar Registrar Executive 
President

--- PAGE 155 ---
155 
 
24 Administrative Assistant  Joint Registrar Registrar Executive 
President 
 
25 Office  Assistant  
(Student Section) 
Joint Registrar Registrar Executive 
President 
 
26 
Office Assistant (Exam 
Dept) 
 
Controller 
Examinations Joint 
Registrar 
Registrar  Executive 
President   
 
27 Office Assistant in EP’s 
Office 
Executive President  
28 Office Assistant in HR 
Dept. 
Assistant Manager 
(HR) 
Registrar  Executive 
President 
 
29 Office  Assistant  in A/c. 
Dept. 
Chief Finance & 
Accounts Officer  
Registrar  Executive 
President  
30 Assistant  Librarian 
Dean (Acad.) Executive 
President 
  
31 Library  Assistant 
Assistant Librarian Dean (Acad.) Executive 
President 
 
32 Estate Manager 
Registrar Executive 
President 
  
33 Junior Engineer  
(Maintenance) 
Estate Manager Registrar  Executive 
President 
 
34 Deputy Manager-Stores 
  
Administrative 
Coordinator  
Registrar  Executive 
President  
35 Site Supervisor 
Estate Manager Registrar  Executive 
President 
 
36 Senior Electrician 
Estate Manager Registrar  Executive 
President  
37 Electrician 
Estate Manager Registrar Executive 
President 
 
38 Store Assistant 
Estate Manager Registrar Executive 
President  
39 Office Attendant 
Administrative 
Coordinator 
Registrar Executive 
President 
 
40 Junior Site Supervisor 
Estate Manager Registrar Executive 
President 
 
41 Driver 
Administrative 
Coordinator 
Registrar Executive 
President 
 
42 Gardner 
Administrative 
Coordinator 
Registrar Executive 
President

--- PAGE 156 ---
156 
 
The formats of the Annual Performance Assessment Report (APAR) forms for Faculty Members, 
Lab. Staff and Admin Staff are given at Appendix No. G, H & I respectively.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
43 Senior Laboratory 
Technician 
HoD Director Executive 
President 
 
44 Junior Laboratory 
Technician 
HoD Director Executive 
President 
 
45 Laboratory 
Demonstrator 
HoD Director Executive 
President 
 
46 Laboratory Technician 
HoD Director Executive 
President 
 
47 Junior Laboratory 
Assistant 
HoD Director Executive 
President 
 
48 Laboratory Assistant 
HoD Director Executive 
President 
 
49 Senior Laboratory 
Instructor 
HoD Director Executive 
President 
 
50 Junior Laboratory 
Instructor 
HoD Director Executive 
President 
 
51 Laboratory Instructor 
HoD Director Executive 
President 
 
52 Tradesman 
Estate Manager Registrar Executive 
President 
 
53 Workshop Assistant 
HoD Director Executive 
President 
 
54 Workshop Attendant 
HoD Director Executive 
President

--- PAGE 157 ---
157 
 
HR POLICY DETAILS OF REVIEW / REVISION 
Sr. 
No. 
Suggestion 
Received 
form 
Date of 
Suggestion/ 
Review 
Details of Suggestions  Recommended 
for Revision ( 
Yes / No) 
Signature of 
Person / 
Suggesting / 
Recommending 
Remarks

--- PAGE 158 ---
158 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Suggestion 
Received 
form 
Date of 
Suggestion/ 
Review 
Details of Suggestions  Recommended 
for Revision ( 
Yes / No) 
Signature of 
Person / 
Suggesting / 
Recommending 
Remarks

--- PAGE 159 ---
159 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Suggestion 
Received 
form 
Date of 
Suggestion/ 
Review 
Details of Suggestions  Recommended 
for Revision ( 
Yes / No) 
Signature of 
Person / 
Suggesting / 
Recommending 
Remarks

--- PAGE 160 ---
160 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Suggestion 
Received 
form 
Date of 
Suggestion/ 
Review 
Details of Suggestions  Recommended 
for Revision ( 
Yes / No) 
Signature of 
Person / 
Suggesting / 
Recommending 
Remarks

--- PAGE 161 ---
161 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Suggestion 
Received 
form 
Date of 
Suggestion/ 
Review 
Details of Suggestions  Recommended 
for Revision ( 
Yes / No) 
Signature of 
Person / 
Suggesting / 
Recommending 
Remarks

--- PAGE 162 ---
162 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Suggestion 
Received 
form 
Date of 
Suggestion/ 
Review 
Details of Suggestions  Recommended 
for Revision ( 
Yes / No) 
Signature of 
Person / 
Suggesting / 
Recommending 
Remarks

--- PAGE 163 ---
163 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Suggestion 
Received 
form 
Date of 
Suggestion/ 
Review 
Details of Suggestions  Recommended 
for Revision ( 
Yes / No) 
Signature of 
Person / 
Suggesting / 
Recommending 
Remarks

--- PAGE 164 ---
164 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Suggestion 
Received 
form 
Date of 
Suggestion/ 
Review 
Details of Suggestions  Recommended 
for Revision ( 
Yes / No) 
Signature of 
Person / 
Suggesting / 
Recommending 
Remarks