--- PAGE 1 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
MANUAL
3
zmr ' W
a*
•*? -•
1

--- PAGE 2 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
MANUAL
M eghalaya State Rural livelih o o d  Society
Myntdu Building Shillong -793001
2

--- PAGE 3 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
No Chapter
1 Introduction & Guiding Principles
1.1 Definitions
1.2 Preamble of HR Policy
1.3 Contents of the Manual
1.4 Important Consideration While Preparing the HR Manual
1.5 Salient Features of the Manual
2 Society Structure, Roles and Positions
2.1 Society’s Organogram of the Society and Various Positions
2.2 Organization Structure and Roles
2.3 Classification of Positions
2.4 Reporting Structure
3 Recruitment & Selection of Staff
3.1 System of Recruitment
3.2 System of Selection
3.3 Selection Process
3.4 Reemployment of Staff
3.5 Induction Programme
3.6 Process Flow for Recruitment & Selection
4 Staff Contract Policy
4.1 Terms of Deputation of Employees from Government
4.2 Appointment on Contract
4.3 Termination of Contract
4.4 Separation
4.5 Exit Interview
5 Transfers
5.1 Allowances during Transfers
5.2 Authority
6 Remuneration & Benefits
6.1 Staff on Deputation
6.2 Other Staff
6.3 Benefits & Increment
3

--- PAGE 4 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
7 Leave & Travel Rules
7.1 Leave Rules
7.2 Travel Rules
7.3 Reimbursement of Journey Fares
7.3 Reimbursement of Conveyance Charges
7.4 Daily Allowance
7.5 Advance
7.6 Claim
7.7 Local Travel
7.8 Travel Claims when on Foreign Tours
7.9 Working Hours and attendance
8 Performance Management System
8.1 Objectives of Performance Management System
8.2 Guiding Principles of Performance Management System for MSRLS
8.3 Measuring Performance
8.4 Actionalizing Performance Management System
8.5 Qualitative Assessment
8.6 Rewarding Performance
9 Capacity Building Needs Assessment
10 Grievance Redressal System
10.1 Definition of Grievance
10.2 Sexual Harassment
11 Disciplinary control system
11.1 Introduction
11.2 Action by Authorized Officers
12 Communication
12.1 Disclosure of Information
12.2 Relationship with outside Organizations
12.3 Channel of Communication
4

--- PAGE 5 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
13 Professional Conduct & Accountability of Staff 
Annexure
1a Staff Contract Format for Community Coordinators 
1b Staff Contract Format for Other Staff
2 Guiding Questions for Exit Interview
3 Salary Structure
4 TA Formats
5 Qualitative Assessment Formats of Performance Management 
5a PMS Consolidation Assessment Sheet
6 Classification of Misconduct
7 Delegation of Disciplinary Power
5

--- PAGE 6 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
1 INTRODUCTION AND GUIDING PRINCIPLES FOR HUMAN RESOURCE POLICY
A Project aimed at empowerment of the people through a systematic process needs to handle its human resouces 
effectively. In such projects, the role of the ‘staff’, their motivations and attitudes towards work and the community assume critical 
importance along with their knowledge and skills. A community demand driven project like NRLM, thus, has to invest in 
developing and operationalising a Human Resource Development Policy which ensures retention and high morale of the staff.
The Meghalaya State Rural Livelihood Society (MSRLS) aims to enhance social and economic empowerment of the rural poor 
in Meghalaya through development of their self sustained and community managed institutions. This is expected to be done by 
developing organizations of rural poor and producers and enabling them to access and negotiate better services, credit and assets 
from public and private sector agencies and financial institutions. The project will also invest in building capacity of public and 
private service providers and promoting micro-finance, micro-enterprises and agribusiness sectors.
Meghalaya Rural Livelihood Society has been constituted by the Government of Meghalaya for implementation of the project. 
For successful implementation of the project, a three tier management structure is designed in the Society corresponding to state, 
district and block levels. At each level, a team of professionals (and field staff at Block level) would be inducted to manage the 
Project to achieve its objectives. Considering the outreach as well as profile of the project, there requires an Human Resource 
Development Manual to suggest policy framework and its implementation guideline for governance as well as meeting the 
requirement of Human Resource associated with the Society is imperative. This HRD manual is prepared to meet this objective
1.1 Definitions of terminology commonly used in the manual
• “The Society” means Meghalaya State Rural Livelihood Society (MSRLS) registered under Meghalaya Cooperative 
Societies Act and all its offices at District and Block levels.
• “The Project” means National Rural Livehood Mission “AJEEVIKA” being run with assistance from the Ministry of Rural 
Development, Govt. of India.
• “Government” means the Government of Meghalaya
• “Employee” or “Staff’  in these rules means individuals appointed to posts on contract or 
deputation. This will not include those working under services being outsourced.
• “Employer” means the Meghalaya State Rural Livelihood Society.
• HR Policy/ HR Manual means HR Policy/ Manual of MSRLS.
• “Executive Committee” means the Executive Committee of MSRLS
1.2 Preamble of HR Manual
• The HR Policy would proactively contribute towards achieving the overall goals of MSRLS by laying 
down principles, guidelines, and rules/norms to ensure smooth functioning of the Project staff.
6

--- PAGE 7 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
• The HR Policy would encourage building of a shared vision of the project among all the project staff to ensure that their 
respective jobs are complementing each other.
• The HR Policy would advocate for outcome based performance by all project staff which is aligned with the organisational 
goal.
• The Policy aims to build a culture of trust, transparency and integrity among all staff.
• The HR Policy would create a learning environment within project where each staff member improves his/her 
understanding about the Project and enhances skill for delivering outputs as assigned.
• The HR Policy would try to ensure that the best available talent is attracted to work in the Project, and to ensure that this 
pool of talent is retained with high motivation and performance levels.
• The HR Policy would provide equal opportunity for all staff across all levels to display performance ability and exercise 
rights as available within project framework.
• The HR Policy would not tolerate any discrimination of staff on grounds of gender, disability or Selection.
• The HR Policy would try to establish high levels of accountability towards the Project among staff at all levels.
1.3. Contents of the Manual
The HRD manual lays the policy as well as related rules for the following
• Staff Contract Policy.
• Process of Recruitment, Selection and Induction.
• Deputation as well as hiring of employee and outsourcing services.
• Staff Compensation Package, Incentive and Rewards.
• Staff transfer, travel and leave.
• System of appraising capacity building needs of staff.
• Performance Management System.
• Grievance Redressal mechanism.
• Disciplinary control system, communication and professional conduct as well as accountability of 
Staff.
1.4. Important considerations while preparing the HRD Manual
• Realizing the dearth of skilled human resources and fast changing work environment, MSRLS reiterates the need to revisit 
and constantly renew its HRD manual to ensure its objective. Thus the HR Policy would be a dynamic document subjected 
to review and redesign as per the changing needs.
• The success of the document lies in it being accepted and owned by all. The HR manual does not claim to have laid rules 
for each and every situation; however it has tried to lay down the policies and the principles by which these rules could be 
evolved and be made part of the manual (if needed) in due course of time. Hence the manual should be treated as an 
evolving document.
7

--- PAGE 8 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
• HRD manual claims at creating “minimum hygiene” for smooth functioning by staff and display ‘care’  for the employee. 
Hence a proactive role is required by all. This has great role in retention of good staff within society.
• The HRD manual recognizes the importance of laying down Business Processes and Service Standards for all provisions 
being mentioned. All possible efforts have been made to describe the process flow and standards to be followed while 
operationalising HRD provisions. Since this manual is considered as an evolving document, the time, quality and processes 
will be further defined from time to time for each provision as and when required.
1.5 Salient Features of HRD Manual
This HRD manual aims to nurture an environment where the human resources employed remain motivated to excel in their 
performance and contribute towards achieving the overall goals of MSRLS. This manual proposes relevant policy frameworks 
aimed to attract and retain good human resources in the Society and provides them opportunities to learn, improve professional 
skills and develop an experience which is valued across the development sector.
Equity is one of the core principles of this manual. It ensures no discrimination on the basis of caste, class or gender. The 
policies framed under the manual bring fair representation of women and weaker sections in employment with MSRLS. Thus, 
related provisions in recruitment (viz. following reservation rules of Government of Meghalaya, lowering eligibility criteria for 
women in case of field positions etc.) are made.
The manual also acknowledges its staff as critical resources for the success of the Project, providing opportunities for 
enhancing learning through structured capacity building, exposure visits etc. It also provides opportunity to existing MSRLS staff to 
compete for higher positions within Society.
Continuing its focus on human resources, it has put in place a robust selection process which is transparent, and not only 
assesses knowledge and skill, but also the attitude of the person to explore whether s/he fits the profile of the job. To retain them, it 
provides challenging job profiles, invests in building the capacity of its staff, and provides a stable job security by contracting them 
for a longer period, subject to their performance. The remuneration package designed for various positions is comparable to the best 
available in the development sector in Meghalaya .  The remuneration and benefits package are proposed with consideration of 
meeting both present and future requiremets of the staff. Hence this package includes Basic Pay, House Rent Allowance (HRA), 
Project Allowances, Employees Provident Fund (EPF) and Insurance Cover for a staff till s/he serves in the Society.
A key initiative prescribed in the HR Manual, is the provision of a Performance Management System, where performance 
is measured on predefined parameters, and staff is provided incentives, recognition and rewards, thus placing a value on 
productivity and performance. A system of Grievance Redressal of staff is given due importance and it is significantly said in this 
manual that late response to grievance would be treated as denial of it. A structured mechanism is proposed therefore to address 
grievances on time.
MSRLS expects its staff to be disciplined. Standard professional conduct and accountability is expected on part of each and 
every staff. The Manual treats as a serious offence, any financial irregularity, non adherence to the norms being laid down by the 
Society, any involvement in fraudulent or criminal activities and misappropriation of Society’s asset and these are treated as reasons 
enough for discontinuation from the Society. Performance and discipline will be valued and given its due weightage.
8

--- PAGE 9 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
2.2 Organisational Structure and Roles
The Meghalaya State Rural Livelihood Society (MSRLS) is led by its General Body, from which a more functional Executive 
Committee has been formed for taking all policy level decisions and advising the functionaries of the society on the management of 
the MSRLS. Representatives from the Government of Meghalaya, civil society, banks, and developmental institutions form the 
executive committee of the Society. The salient features of the organization structure for implementation of the Meghalaya State 
Rural Livelihood Society (MSRLS).
2.2.1 Project Structure at State Level
MSRLMS: SM M U Organogram
Governing Body ----- 27 member, Hon'ble Chief Minister- Chairman,
State Mission Director 10 Executive member, Chief Secy- President
■ Chief Operating Officer
I  _ _
Dy. Chief Operating Officer
State Project Managers (SPMs) Subject Specialist
i r ~ *
SPM SPM SPM SPM SPM SPM SPM SPM SPM
(M&E) (CB/IB) ■ (BL/FI) (SD/Jbs) (Mkt) (Proc) ■ (Fin) ■ (HR) (ICT/MIS)
____i _ ______ ______1 _____i _ _____ ____ ____i — _______i
I
-Young Professional, Project Executives
1
l-- r~ r ~ v~ v~ *
YP
(M&E)
YP
(CB/IB)
YP
■ (BL/FI)
YP
(SD/Jobs
YP
(Mkt)
PE
(Proc)
PE
■ (Fin)
PE
■ (HR)
PE
(ICT/MIS)
At the state level, the State Project Management Unit (SPMU) has been formed and staffed with a team of dedicated 
development professionals. The Society is headed by a Chief Operating Officer who is also the OSD of Community & Rural 
Development Deptt. Along with COO, various functional specialists are positioned as State Project Managers and Project Managers, 
to oversee and manage the various functions within the Jeevika project. The COO will be assisted by an Dy. COO and State Project
9

--- PAGE 10 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Managers. The allocation of roles and responsibilities of this State Project Team will follow a matrix structure where they will be 
responsible for a function (specialized and thematic) and a district during project implementation.
The structure of the organization is based on a model where the core functions within the project of mobilization of 
communities into SHGs, VOs and Federations will be implemented in house and certain other functions which will emerge or in 
which there is already domain experience within Meghalaya, the project will use an outsourcing partnership model. Three 
organizational innovations will be sought in future for management of the project at the state level, keeping in view the institutional 
dimension of implementing a project in Meghalaya, which has low institutional capacity.
First, a Training and Capacity Building Cell is being formed which will look after the large scale staff and community level 
training needs in a multi functional and multi disciplinary manner. At a later phase this cell may be spun off as an independent 
organization to look after the training needs of the state for rural development professionals.
Second, a Business Facilitation Cell is being formed to promote livelihoods through various kinds of partnerships that 
would allow for sector based technical assistance, marketing tie ups, and subsectoral based turnkey partnerships for specific 
commodities and products. The cell would continuously endeavor to introduce innovations in livelihoods into the project.
Third, a Partnership Cell is being formed to look at partnering civil society institutions who will be stakeholders in specific 
field locations. The cell will promote partnership and assist such NGOs in their capacity building with a package of services for 
upgrading their SHG and Federation group quality.
The financial function of the society and project will be managed by a State Project Manager (Finance), who will be 
responsible for both the fiduciary governance of the project funds as well as introduction of best business processes to ensure 
timeliness of funds flow to the field based community organizations S/he will be assisted by a Finance Officer, a Procurement 
Specialist and an experienced and reputed Financial Management and Technical Support Consultant (FMTSC) or a Young 
Professional(Finance). The State Project Management Unit will proactively work for designing policy, planning intervention and 
frame operational strategies for the project.
10

--- PAGE 11 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
2.2.2 Project Structure at District Level
There will be seven district units of the Society established as District Mission Management Unit (DMMU). These units 
will be operational at district headquarters in Shillong, Nongstoin, Tura, Williamnagar, Baghmara, Jowai and Nongpoh. A District 
Project Manager (DPM) will be appointed by the Society to head each of the district unit. To support the DPM, Functional 
Specialists will be placed as per the requirement of the project. To begin with, a District Training Coordinator (DTC) will be 
functional at DMMU to meet all capacity building requirement of staff working at block level. To assist the DTC, District Training 
Officers (DTO) will be deputed.
The DMMU will be responsible for coordinating, implementing and managing project activities across the blocks under 
project operation and in the district. Initially, the DMMU will be a lean and flexible structure, as the pattern of programme 
expansion in specific themes and specific districts will be dependent on a variety of factors. Initially it is proposed that at the district 
level District Project Manager along with DTC and DTO will be posted and greater attention will be given to institution building at 
the block and village level. Depending on progress horizontally across villages and emerging livelihood according to thematic areas, 
other functional specialist will be introduced into the district team.
11

--- PAGE 12 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
2.2.3 Project Structure at Block Level
At block level, the Society will place a Block Mission Management Unit (BMMU). This is a key unit of the project. Quality of this 
unit will determine how effectively the project rolls out in the field. Altogether 39 (total no of block in all seven Districts) such units 
will be created during the project period. This will correspond to the block coverage plan spread into phases. The Block Project 
Manager will be the functional head of this unit. S/he will be supported by Community Coordinator and a minimum number of 
Finance and Administrative staff. Primarily this unit of the society will work as a mirror functional unit to the proposed Community 
Organization to be built up over the project period. Hence one of major functions of BMMU will be to facilitate the formation and 
functioning of Block Level Federation. The block unit will facilitate a graduation process of community institutions which over a 
time period would take over the functions of the BMMU.
12

--- PAGE 13 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
2.3 Classification of Positions in the Society
For administrative and governance purposes different positions in the society are categorized as per following
Categories Posts Scale
Category I • Chief Operating Officer cum Project Director
• Dy. Chief Operating Officer cum Administrative 
officer & Resource Mobilisation
As per provision of 
Government of Meghalaya
Category II • Finance Officer (FO)
• State Project Managers (SPM)
• Procurement Specialists or Young Professionals
• District Project Managers (DPM)
• District Project Coordinators (DPC)
• District Training Coordinator (DTC)
Scale 1-2 or 1-3 with defined 
salary structure
Category III • District Training Officer (DTO)
• Block Project Managers (BPM)
• Area Coordinators (AC)
• Community Coordinators (CC)
• Procurement Assistant
• System Analyst
• Data Administrator
• Accountant (at SPMU)
• Office Assistant
• Cashier
• DTP Operator
• Accountant cum Office Asst.
• Data Entry Operator
• PA cum Steno to CEO/Addl. CEO
Scale 1-2 or 1-3 with defined 
salary structure
Category IV • Support Staff -  Drivers, peons, 
Office boy, security guards
Scale 1-2 or 1-3 with defined 
salary structure
13

--- PAGE 14 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
• New Positions created would be placed in the respective category and relevant salary scale will be fixed.
• When an existing staff is selected for higher position, the notified person remains in the same category unless the order 
mentions specifically that s/he has been moved into another category.
* Scale of salary will be usedfor giving jump to a staff on his/her performances displayed, placed at the time of recruitment based  
on his/her work experience and/or give awardfor special achievement and recognition within the project.
2.4 Reporting Structure
The reporting structure within the society will work as follows For State Project Management Unit:
Sl.no Posts Reporting to
1 Chief Operating Officer cum Project Director
State Mission Director /Executive 
Committee
2
Dy. Chief Operating Officer cum Administrative Officer & Resource 
Mobilisation.
Chief Operating Officer
3 State Project Managers (SPM) Chief Operating Officer
4 Finance Officer (FO) Chief Operating Officer
5 Project managers or Young Professionals State Project Managers (concerned)
6 Procurement Assistant Dy.Chief Operating Officer cum 
Administrative Officer
7 System Analyst
Dy.Chief Operating Officer cum 
Administrative Officer / State Project 
Managers, M&E
8 Data Administrator State Project Managers, M&E
9 Accountant Finance Officer (FO)
10 Office Assistant
Dy.Chief Operating Officer cum 
Administrative Officer
11 Cashier Finance Officer (FO)
12 DTP Operator
Dy.Chief Operating Officer cum 
Administrative Officer
13 Accountant cum Office Asst.
Dy.Chief Operating Officer cum 
Administrative Officer
14 Data Entry Operator State Project Managers, M&E
15 PA cum Steno to CEO/Addl. CEO
Dy. Chief Operating Officer cum 
Administrative Officer
14

--- PAGE 15 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
16 Drivers Dy. Chief Operating Officer cum 
Administrative Officer
17 Peons Dy.Chief Operating Officer cum 
Administrative Officer
18 Office Boy Dy.Chief Operating Officer cum 
Administrative Officer
19 Security Guards Dy.Chief Operating Officer cum 
Administrative Officer
For District Mission Management Unit:
Sl.no Posts Reporting to
1 District Project Managers (DPM) State Project Managers (incharge of concerned)
2 District Project Coordinators (DPC) Project Manager of Concern District
3 District Training Officers (DTO) District Project Coordinator
4 Accountant cum Office Assistant Project Manager of Concern District
5 Data Entry Operator Project Manager of Concern District
6 Guard cum Peon Project Manager of Concern District
For Block Mission Management Unit:
Sl.no
Posts
Reporting to
1 Block Project Managers (BPM) State Project Managers (incharge of concerned) and District Project Coordinator
2 Area Coordinators (AC) Block Project Manager
3 Accountant cum Office Assistant Block Project Manager
4 Community Coordinators (CC) Area Coordinator
5 Master Book Keeper Area Coordinator
5 Data Entry Operator Block Project Manager
6 Guard cum Peon Block Project Manager
The reporting structure will be reviewed and changed as and when required by the Society. For the purpose, COO will be the final 
authority.
15

--- PAGE 16 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
3. RECRUITMENT & SELECTION OF STAFF
3.1 System of Recruitment
The following methods will be applicable for selection of all positions in the Society except the COO cum Project Director & 
Dy.COO cum Admistrative Officer & Resource Mobilisation.
3.1.1 By recruiting individuals from the open market, through a competent external agency or by the Society itself.
3.1.2 By selection of personnel on deputation from Government Departments and other Instrumentalities of Meghalaya State, 
Government of India or Nationalized Banks.
3.1.3 By outsourcing the services to an external agency for support services e.g. Security, Cleaning etc.
3.1.4 By head hunting through HR Agencies or through generating applications by soliciting recommendations from staff, well 
wishers, other Govt Departments.
3.1.5 By direct campus recruitment from reputed rural development, rural management, management, social work, agriculture as
well as other technical colleges/institutions.
For purpose of recruitment, staff categorization and method of appointment will be as indicated in the table below.
Sl.no Categories of staff Methods of Recruitment & Selection
Directly from 
Open Market
On deputation Outsourcing the services 
through an external agency
1 Category I NA All No
2 Category II All All No
3 Category III All All All
4 Category IV All All All
Recruitment process has to focus on selecting competent individuals who have people centered attitude and their approach 
must reflect genuine thinking on working for the advancement of poor, ability to perform in team and commitment towards his/her 
job. Before recruitment of employee in the Society creation of posts must be approved by the Executive Committee of MSRLS.
16

--- PAGE 17 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Once the post is created, COO will be authorized to choose the selection method and accordingly recruit and select staff for all the 
positions lower than COO and Dy. COO. For normal recruitment for all other positions the following steps will be followed.
a) COO approves the job profile of the positions to be recruited.
b) Minimum eligibility criteria for each position are defined. The criteria should define the education and experience 
necessary for that position, plus desirable criteria if any.
c) Selection of Agency as per procurement norms (if it is decided by Society to conduct recruitment through external 
agency).
d) Notification in leading newspaper/s and/or on related job sites on internet.
e) Receiving the applications, shortlisting them, inviting shortlisted candidate and conducting selection process.
Suitable working MSRLS staff will also be given fair chance to apply for any vacant position. An internal circulation will be made 
across the project offices along with notification in the newspaper and floating vacancy on relevant websites.
3.2 System of Selection
The selection process of MSRLS will comply with Government of Meghalaya’s rules of reservation as applicable. The grouping of 
positions would be made keeping the MSRLS as a unit. Grouping would also be done keeping in mind the qualifications, skill sets 
and remuneration fixed for various position.
All possible effort will be made to fill the reserved positions within the society. The benchmark of eligibility for selection in 
MSRLS for reserved position may be lowered and approved by the Executive Committee. In case of reserved categories being 
vacant, vacancies would be filled as per norms followed by Government of Meghalaya but following the prescribed process herein. 
Further, to encourage women to join, MSRLS eligibility criteria for women for field level positions may be lower than the standard 
prescribed in general in case required numbers of staff is not available.
In case of filling regular vacancies or conducting recruitment for a few numbers of positions, the Society will conduct recruitment 
by its own. COO will be authorized to take this decision based on urgency and cost implications. In this case selection process 
would be followed as described under clause 3.3.
The appointment of COO and Dy. COO will be done by the Government of Meghalaya as recommended by the Governing Council / 
Executive committee for Execution, Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation of the project on behalf of the Government of 
Meghalaya. For appointment of all other positions under the Project, the Executive Committee authorizes the COO to recruit and 
select suitable individual either directly or through hiring a competent external HR Agency.
17

--- PAGE 18 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
3.3 Selection Process
For selection of staff, the Project may utilize the present staff or seek the services of a qualified HR Agency. The selection of the 
agency should follow the procurement norms of the Project.
For each position a set of minimum eligibility criteria would be defined before hand based on which candidates would be shortlisted 
for the selection process. This would detail out the following
a) Minimum Educational Qualification required.
b) Minimum years of Experience required .
c) Age limits (if any) For all positions except COO and Dy. COO / Retired personal will not be eligible.
MSRLS would relax the criteria of Years of experience giving weightage in the following cases
a) If the candidate has been working with MSRLS,MRDS and rural development societies within the State for more than one 
year, the working experience would be given due weightage.
b) If the candidate has graduated from a premier institution (e.g. IIM, IRMA, NIRD, XLRI, XISS, IIFM, TISS, XIMB etc.) A 
list of premier institutions for which relaxation could be given would be drawn by COO as and when required.
c) If a candidate has worked in reputed organizations, the experience of which would be an asset to MSRLS. A list of premier 
organizations for which relaxation could be given would be drawn by COO from time to time.
In all the above cases, the minimum years of experience prescribed in the eligibility criteria for the position could be relaxed up to 
one year.
Broadly, the following characteristics, consisting of knowledge, skills, attitudes, and values, are considered desirable for the 
different professionals to be selected for different posts in the Project. The table below provides a general list of these attributes.
18

--- PAGE 19 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Attributes List of Competencies
Knowledge
Conceptual clarity on Poverty in local context, development principles, strategies 
Knowledge of successful interventions, various actors in development, their roles, and 
their limitations
Thematic knowledge based on positions e.g. micro-finance, micro enterprise, finance 
and accounts, women empowerment, disability etc
Communication: Listening
Communication (oral & written), Presentation
Group facilitation (leading, confronting, clarifying, supporting,) [Process related skills]
Conflict Resolution
Skills Leadership (initiating, consensus building, problem solving, providing new ideas) 
[Task related skills]
Decision Making (Information Processing, planning, scheduling, Problem solving)
Community organization skills (promoting groups, conflict management at group level, 
inclusion, ability to convince)
Attitudes
Pro Poor Facilitative Orientation - Belief in the skills and understanding of the poor, 
seeing himself/herself as a co-learner with the poor, low stereotyping
Colleague Orientation - Collegial, Supportive, low stereotyping
Work Style i) Perseverance, Willingness to work under stress ii) Self Driven/ 
proactive, Risk Taking, result oriented
Thought Orientation - Creative, critical thinking, willingness to learn, Openness
Values Honesty, Commitment, Accountability, Transparency
The set of knowledge, skills, attitudes and values would vary from position to position of the project. For teams working 
directly with the community, attitudes like empathy, pro poor orientation are more crucial than for those for example at the state 
level. Similarly task orientation, assume criticality, mentoring etc for those at State and District teams.
The selection methodology would take these into account and accordingly identify instruments through which these 
attributes could be tested. Hence along with tests that judge an applicants knowledge, skill, attitudinal tests too would be conducted 
to get the right fit between the job requirements and the candidates. Village immersion programme would be included as a test for 
final selection of Area Coordinators and Community Coordinators or for any other positions as required.
3.3.1 Selection Methodology
The Selection Methodology for MSRLS would be an amalgamation of the following components:
❖  Use of Multiple, and formal, Tests of Selection. This allows for a more wholesome understanding of the person
to be selected. In order to be able to understand and rate candidates, three kinds of Tests would be used:
19

--- PAGE 20 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
❖  Psychometric Tests.  These are Tests designed to indicate how psychologically comfortable an individual is with 
the kind of work expected to be taken up in MSRLS. There are various types of psychometric tests which could be used depending 
on what we want to assess in an individual.
❖  Sociometric Tests.  These Tests are used to indicate an individual’s ability to work in groups. Usually Group 
Discussions are used as instruments.
❖  Evaluation Interview.  It is a Test, if handled well, which gives an overall view of what makes an individual tick. 
The Interview, like other tools in this methodology, is used not so much as a tool of selection, but as a tool of rejection.
❖  Having a formal mechanism of Selection. A Selection panel would be formally constituted and would have a 
prefixed date and place for selection. Clear, unambiguous and transparent criteria for selection or rejection of candidates should be 
placed. The panel members should be oriented on the interview process and techniques of observation/evaluation. In case the 
process is outsourced, the constitution of the panel would be done by the HR Agency in consultation with the Project.
The Panel for selection of candidates in case the selection is done by the Project itself.
Positions Panel Members
Category I Not Applicable
Category II (SPM, COO, Dy. COO, 1  External Sector Specialist (in the field for which
AO, FO) vacancy has arisen) and/or SPM -  HR
Category II (Others) COO, Dy. COO, Concerned Sector Specialist SPM, AO and 1  External 
Sector Specialist (in the field for which vacancy has arisen) and/or SPM 
-  HR
Category III COO, Dy. COO, SPM -  HR, Concerned SPM, AO and/or 1  HR 
Specialist
Category IV SPM -  HR, AO, PM -  HR and concerned DPM/BPM
3.3.2 System of Outsourcing Support Services
Service of individuals to man the positions like Assistant, Accountant, Stenographer, Receptionist, Driver, Guard, and Office 
Boy may be outsourced by entering into a contract with a single or multiple service provider agency/ies. The service provider/s 
could be empanelled by the project and their services sought as per the procurement norms of the project. The COO will hold 
the authority of engaging and contracting such agencies.
20

--- PAGE 21 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
The COO will have the authority to renew the contract with the out sourcing agencies based on the satisfactory performance. In 
case of unsatisfactory performance by the person whose service is hired, the COO will warn the service provider agency and ask 
for necessary action. If required, COO will annul the contract made in this regard. The individuals whose service is hired 
through outsourcing will be the employees of service provider agencies; they shall not be the staff of MSRLS. Hence all 
liabilities of such person will lie upon the service provider agency.
3.4 Re-employment of Staff
MSRLS would consider reappointing staff that leave the Project due to personal reasons and wish to join back. This would be 
applicable only if they had no reported disciplinary action against them and were not asked to leave on disciplinary grounds. In 
cases of re-employment, selection process of MSRLS as described earlier shall apply.
3.5 Induction Programme
All new staff who have joined the Society will undergo an extensive induction programme. The purpose of induction is to 
ensure the effective integration of staff into or across the organization for the benefit of both parties. The induction programme 
would provide all the information that new employees should know at the time of joining. The programme will also involve 
existing staff of the organization. A design for the programme has been provided below.
Sl Topic Inputs on Suggested Methodology
No
1 Organization
Background, Vision, Objectives, Goals, Organizational 
Chart
MM presentations -  
Interactive session - 
participants Session with 
State Mission Director and 
COO, Dy. COO,
2 Terms & Conditions
Probation period. 
Working time. 
Holidays/special leave. 
Discipline procedure .  
Grievance procedure.
MM presentations -  
Interactive session with 
participants
3
Terms & Conditions - 
Salary & Benefits
Salary break up, payment date and method .  
Bank account opening forms & requirements. 
Other Benefits -  Insurance, etc.
MM presentations -  
Interactive session with 
participants
4
Terms & Conditions -  
Travel related
Travel claim norms and procedures 
Formats
MM presentations -  
Interactive session with 
participants
21

--- PAGE 22 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Project Locations MM presentations -
Project Components Interactive session of
5 Thematic Orientation Strategies of Implementation participants with concerned 
SPM Location Visits 
Village Stay in Project 
Location
The induction programme would be planned by the SPM- HRD. It should be completed for all appointed staff before they  
take programme responsibilities. For field staff, Induction Programme could be organized at the District Level, with District  
Project Coordinator anchoring the programme with supportfrom the PM HRD.
3.6 Process Flows Defined
22

--- PAGE 23 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
3.6.1 Filling vacancy through Open Market
S
No
Event/ Activity Initiation Approval
By (Key 
Responsibility)
End Time
(days)
By (Key 
Responsibility)
End Time
(days)
1
Identifying & Notifying 
Vacancy- Deciding method of 
selection
SPM -  HR 5 COO 2 days
2
Designing & releasing 
Advertisement OR 
Contacting HR Agency with 
requirements
SPM -  HR 10 COO 2 days
3
Short listing from 
applications received (giving 
at least 10 days for 
candidates to apply)
SPM -  HR 13 - -
4
Constituting Panel & Fixing 
date of selection (time given 
for candidates to travel)
SPM -  HR 14 COO 2 days
5
Selection Interview and 
Finalizing Candidate/s
SPM -  HR 3 COO 2 days
6
Appointment Letter to 
Selected candidate
SPM -  HR 2 COO 1  day
Total Time for Event 56 days
23

--- PAGE 24 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
4 STAFF CONTRACT POLICY
4.1 Terms of deputation of employees from the Government
Once selected, the appointment of employees from the Government departments and other instrumentalities of the State on 
deputation shall be in accordance with the terms and conditions stipulated by the Government of Meghalaya. A provision of an 
additional Project Allowance for those being appointed on deputation will be made. Once appointed, the deputed employee will 
be governed by the rules and regulations of the Society, to the extent that they are not in contradiction of the terms and 
conditions of service of their parent department. They would go through the process of Performance Appraisal and would be 
entitled to rewards as prescribed by the Society.
4.2 Appointment of persons on Contract
4.2.1.1 The authority to appoint COO cum Project Director and the Dy. COO will be with the Government of Meghalaya.
4.2.1.2 The authority to appoint rest of the positions in the Society will be with COO.
4.2.1.3 If and when the Society requires personnel with specific skills/ expertise in handling specific subjects/ special
qualifications, such personnel shall be contracted for a consultancy assignment following the procurement norms of the 
MSRLS.
4.2.1.4 The duration of contract of staff employed with Society will be for three years, further extendable based on 
performance.
4.2.1.5 Those appointed on contract shall be initially on probation for a period of 3 (extendable to 6) months and on their 
successfully completing probation, will be retained for a period of three years including the period spent on probation. 
In case the probation is not extended even after one extension (a total of 6 months), the candidate would be terminated.
4.2.1.6 Probation would be assessed on the following parameters
Performance on tasks given during the period of contract 
Task orientation and Team work 
Communication skill displayed 
Sensitivity towards the target population
24

--- PAGE 25 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
4.2.1.7 The panel for assessing the performance during probation would be as follows
Positions Panel Members
Category II (SPM, FO) COO and Dy. COO
Category II (Others) COO, Dy. COO, Concerned SPM, AO
Category III COO or Dy. COO, Concerned SPM (wherever necessary), SPM -  HR, 
and concerned DPM
Category IV Dy. COO, SPM -  HR, and concerned DPM/BPM
4.2.1.8 The candidate whose performance and character and conduct are not up to the mark while on probation 
shall be discharged after giving them a fair hearing. They may be discharged without any notice.
4.2.1.9 The authority to renew contract for all employee lower than COO and Dy. COO will be with COO.
Staff contract formats are provided at Annexure 1a and 1b.
4.3 Termination of Contract
The employment with MSRLS may be terminated by the Society or by employee, through a written notice as follows.
4.3.1 One month notice from either side or one month’s salary (gross) in lieu of notice period.
4.3.2 In case of termination during the probation period, 7 days notice from the employer and one month notice or one month’s 
salary (gross) in lieu of notice period from the employee.
4.3.3 During the month of termination, the employee will be eligible to all allowances on a pro-rata basis. This clause will 
however not be applicable to cases of termination without any notice period.
4.3.4 Days in service will be calculated till the last day (rounded off to lower day in case of fractions) presence at office.
4.4 Separation:
Employees may separate from the Society for various reasons including unfortunate case of death of employee. In all cases of 
separation, settlement of all dues should be made fast and fair not only for the sake of appreciation of her/his services to the 
organisation but also as a matter of financial discipline.
In all possible cases, a process of counseling would be undertaken to know the reasons due to which the employee is seeking 
separation. In case there are misunderstandings or an issue which can be resolved, the SPM HRD along with a team of two other 
employee of the Society (appointed by COO) would try to counsel the concerned person.
25

--- PAGE 26 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
The following procedure and guidelines will guide cases of separation:
4.4.1 Separation because of
i. Resignation tendered by employee
ii. Non-renewal of contract
iii. Dismissal due to compelling reasons
The resignation letter should be addressed to the COO cum Project Director with a copy marked to the reporting officer.
In all cases of separation due to above causes, the employee concerned should take a 'No Dues Certificate’  before the last day of 
his/her duty from all concerned offices/department of the Society. This certificate should be finally signed and approved by COO for 
payment of all dues. Accounts unit shall prepare a final list of recoverables (in case of advances) and dues within fifteen days of 
receipt of the copy of the approved resignation letter. All recoverables must be first settled as per the accounting norms before 
payment of dues.
The employee should hand over charge to her/his reporting officer or the DPC for all positions at the district and block level. 
For DPC and all State level positions, the charge should be handed over to the SPM or the Administrative Officer.
4.4.2 Separation because of desertion :-
In such cases the Society shall make contacts over telephone to enquire about reason of desertion. If suitable answers are not 
received the Society may serve at least two letters to the permanent residential address as per Society records. Accounts unit 
shall prepare a final list of recoverables (in case of advances) and dues and inform COO. If required legal proceedings (notice 
through newspaper) may be initiated against the person.
4.4.3 Separation due to death of employee; in case of unfortunate death of an employee, SPM -  HRD will be responsible to prepare 
a status list of clearance from all offices/ departments of the Society and submit to COO for approval. A condolence message from 
the Society signed by the COO and all the employees may be sent to the bereaved family. Recoverables (in case of advances) may 
be settled as per the accounting norms and payment of dues made to the nominated member as per Society records within a 
fortnight.
4.5 Exit Interview
Employees in whatever ranks are ambassadors of an organization and its culture. In all cases of separation except unfortunate death 
of an employee exit interviews shall be conducted. The purpose of the exercise would be gain critical feedback from the employee 
on areas which could be further improved within the MSRLS. This process shall be conducted just before the actual release of 
employee. Exit interview would be conducted by two senior person within the MSRLS. It should be conducted by person not in the 
direct line of command. It would be done through an in depth interview, with the purpose of seeking feedback for improvement. A 
set of sample guiding questions have been provided in Annexure 2.
26

--- PAGE 27 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
5. TRANSFERS
The Livelihood Mission is spread across seven districts in Meghalaya. Teams are placed within the districts as well -  at the sub 
block Level. In the interest of the mission, it is expected that staff may be transferred to different locations based on organizational 
requirements. The arrangements described below are intended to facilitate such moves, and provide for adequate reimbursement of 
expenses incurred in such transfers. Transfers should not be made a matter of routine, but generally in order to;
i) transfer necessitated by the exigencies of the Project
ii) effect lateral transfers for broader development between similar positions
iii) transfer in a district/hub unit or division/unit having less than required cadre
iv) effect physically removing an officer from one duty station on a personal conflict one who 
made with another officer inside or outside the organization
v) transfer in a district/hub unit or division/unit on disciplinary grounds
vi) undertake responsibilities of a new district/hub unit or division/unit or vacant position due to 
expansion
vii) accommodate the request of one district/Block unit to another on personal request
In this context, a transfer is defined as relocation exceeding a six month period. Such a move would normally entail shifting of 
household belongings and family. In such cases, the following expenses may be reimbursed:
5.1 Allowances during transfer
5.1.1 Transfer Allowance: In case of a transfer, one month’s gross salary would be given in advance as transfer allowance, to 
cover all costs of relocation (including shifting the family, finding new accommodation, schooling of children, etc). This advance 
would be payable to the staff within a week of the approval of the transfer.
5.1.2 Freight & Packaging : The cost of relocation of personal would be reimbursed to the employee transferred as per actual on 
production of bills, subject to a maximum of Rs 12,000.
5.1.3 No allowances would be payable in case of a request for transfer from staff.
5.2 Authority
For all transfers, the State Mission Director would be the final authority. The request for transfer could be initiated by the State 
Project Managers or the District Project Coordinator, either due to requirements or due to a request from staff.
27

--- PAGE 28 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
5.2.1 Staff on request transfer
The request of transfers of a new employee shall be considered only after one years of service is completed. The request should be 
made in writing to the State Mission Director, through the reporting authority specifying the reasons with adequate information and 
documentary proof.
5.2.2 Process of Approval
The request of transfers may be considered by the panel which could include State Mission Director, COO, Dy. COO and SPM -  
HRD. The decision of approval/ rejection should be conveyed to the concerned staff within thirty days of the receipt of request for 
transfer, with a copy of the approval/rejection to accounts. In case approval is granted, the accounts would release the transfer 
allowance equal to one month’s salary of the person transferred. This amount should be released within seven days of receiving the 
approval to facilitate early relocation and ensure that work is not hampered on account of any delays.
5.2.3 Joining Period after Transfer
A staff on transfer shall join the new location of duty within 7 working days of the Issue of transfer letter/ order. This period of 7 
days will be granted as leave with pay and will not be accounted for in the staffs leave account. If staff joins immediately and 
doesn’t take leave, s/he will be entitled to avail this leave within a year.
6 REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS
The success of this Project chiefly rests with the people who would implement it. The Project requires high quality interaction and 
facilitation with the target communities, which will be done by the Project staff. Thus remuneration and benefits for MSRLS have 
been designed keeping in mind those being offered in similar Projects in other states, and based on market realities to attract the best 
talent to the Project.
6.1 Remuneration and Benefits to Staff on Deputation
Those joining on deputation from Govt of Meghalaya would continue to draw salaries as per the scales in their parent department. In 
addition, staffs hired on deputation from all Category are entitled to a monthly Project Allowance of 30% of their monthly basic 
pay (which includes basic pay and dearness pay), subject to a maximum of Rs 10,000 per month. The staff on deputation may avail 
either monthly Project Allowance or Deputation Allowance as per his/her option.
6.2 Remuneration and Benefits to Other Staff (from Open Market)
The package would follow a broad based pay structure, with less number of scales within each Level, but higher range within scales. 
Thus most of the levels would have three scales (two in some). The base pay would be combined with an incentive pay component
28

--- PAGE 29 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
which will be performance linked.
The compensation has been divided into a monthly pay and an annual pay. The structure for all positions except Community 
Coordinators is as follows.
S No Components Remarks
A MONTHLY PAY
1 Base Pay -
2 Provident Fund As per statutory regulations.
3 HRA 20% of Base pay for Positions based in State Capital and 
15% for District and Block level positions
4 Project Allowances
4a Medical Allowance To meet employee’s (including family) regular medical 
expenses
4b Conveyance Allowance To facilitate conveyance at station where employee is 
positioned
4c Child Education Allowance To cover cost of tuition fees of employee’s children
4d Communication Allowance Mobile phone and other communication costs -  to 
facilitate smoother communication across all levels
B ANNUAL PAY
5 Performance linked 
Incentive
Maximum of 15% depending upon the performance as 
measured by the Appraisal System. The percentage fixed 
can be increased or decreased later on.
All the allowances mentioned above are part of the salary to which the staff is entitled to. They are notreimbursables to be given 
against claims. Some of the allowances attract tax rebates. The same can be enjoyed by the staff on production of relevant 
documents. In this case, TDS can be deducted based on the tax plan submitted by the staff. In case no documents are produced at the 
end of the year, TDS based on the tax liability as per the prevailing tax rates, would be deducted. Salary should be credited to the
th
staff’s bank account before the 5 day of every subsequent month.
All new staff recruited would be taken in at scales applicable (based on experience and education) under their respective Positions. 
The CEO, however can use his/her discretion in allowing people to join in higher scales or with higher salary to a maximum of 10% 
of what is prescribed for a scale.
A salary structure for various positions in the Society with related details is given as Annexure 3.
29

--- PAGE 30 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
6.3 Benefits
MSRLS aims to develop a policy which ‘cares’  for the employee. This plays a critical role in building an image of a ‘caring 
employer’.  Thus apart from the salary, MSRLS would also extend the following benefits to its entire staff:
6.3.1 Medical & Accident Insurance: The project will benefit all contracted staff as well as staff on deputation with Mediclaim 
and Group Accidental Insurance (GAI) cover with appropriate coverage as explained under.
Sl Categories Maximum Coverage (Rs.)
1 Category I Mediclaim up to 5,00,000 and GAI as decided
2 Category II Mediclaim up to 3,00,000 and GAI as decided
3 Category III Mediclaim up to 2,00,000 and GAI as decided
4 Category IV Mediclaim up to 1,00,000 and GAI as decided
This benefit will be available to staffs till their services are continued with the Society.
6.3.2
Support to staff in case of crisis arising while on duty: In case of an unforeseen incident taking place with staff 
while performing office duty, the Project will take all steps possible to benefit and support the employee concerned.
6.3.3 Self Learning: Provision of reimbursement of expenses incurred for purchasing books and other periodicals will be 
made to MSRLS staff with a limit as described hereunder.
S No Category Max limit per year
1 Category I Rs 5000
2 Category II RS 3000
3 Category III Rs 2000
Employees who have completed their probation will be entitled for this reimbursement. The reimbursement will be made on 
production of bills and verified by the supervisor. In case of COO and Dy. COO, s/he will be the self verifying authority.
6.3.4 Learning Opportunities for Staff: MSRLS would create opportunities to build the capacity of its staff by sending them 
for exposure visits to other successful Projects, by organizing training programmes etc.
6.4 Annual Increment (to compensate increased cost of living)
An increment of 5% of the total remuneration would be provided to all contractual staff after completion of one calendar 
year of working with MSRLS.
30

--- PAGE 31 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
6.5 Advance for purchase of Motorbike for Field Employees
For purchase of motor bike, a provision of advance against their salary has been made. The maximum amount, permissible as 
advance for this purpose, will be minimum Rs 20,000(Rupees Twenty Thousand only) and maximum Rs 45,000 (Rupees Forty Five 
Thousand only). This amount would be recoverable from the salary of the concerned employee in a maximum of ten equal 
installments. For getting advance for purchase of motor bike and claiming mobility expense, the concerned employee must posses a 
valid driving license in his name, a photocopy of which shall be submitted to MSRLS. The motorbike purchased by staff using 
advance from MSRLS would be hypothecated to the Society till the advance is completely settled.
Those employees who have purchased their motor bikes after joining MSRLS can also avail of advance as mentioned above for 
prepayment of their loans taken from other sources if any.
7. LEAVE & TRAVEL RULES
7.1 Leave Rules
7.1.1 General
a) Leave is to be regarded as a privilege, and not as a right. It is allowed both in the interest of the employee and that of the 
organization. The employee can not claim leave as an unqualified right.
b) All leave is granted subject to exigency of services and leave already granted can be curtailed or cancelled at any time by the 
authority granting the leave. However, this condition will apply to an employee on casual and vacation leave only.
c) Any leave not covered under these rules shall be referred to the Executive Committee of MSRLS for consideration through the 
COO.
d) An employee when on leave shall not take up any paid service/ employment elsewhere unless approved by the COO.
7.1.2 Leave Entitlement
a) All staff excluding casual and daily paid, shall be entitled to following number of days leave with pay for a calendar year, 
subject to the provisions under each category of leave. These leaves are over and above the holidays declared as per the 
Government of Meghalaya..
❖  Casual Leave (CL) earned @ 1  leave after completion of every month of service.
❖  Earned Leave (EL) earned @ 2 days after completion of every month of service
b) Altogether an employee of MSRLS will be entitled to 36 days of leave on completion of one year of service. These leaves 
will be credited to individual leave account in each calendar year. Any employee joining in between the calendar year will be 
entitled to leave on a pro rata basis.
31

--- PAGE 32 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
c) Casual leave lapses at the end of each calendar year and can not be carried forward or used for encashment.
7.1.3 Absence without Leave
An employee shall not absent herself/himself from duty, without prior approval except under medical emergencies. Even in such 
cases, intimation about absence shall be sent at the earliest.
If an employee is absent without intimation to his superior officer for more than five days and s/he does not report for duties he 
shall be deemed to have vacated his post. In extreme cases, the COO could decide whether the staff should be allowed to join back 
or may be subjected to deduction of Pay if not properly justified.
7.1.4 Leave without Pay
a) Normally, leave without pay will not be granted if leave with pay is due to a staff. Under normal circumstances, leave without 
pay shall not be granted in excess of 30 days in one occasion.
b) COO at her/his discretion may sanction such leave in excess of 30 days in event of any emergency. During the period of leave 
the staff is not entitled to any kind of salary or allowances.
7.1.5 Leave Encashment
a) No unutilized leave can be encashed while the staff is employed with MSRLS. Encashment of leave will be allowed only when 
the staff is separated from the services of MSRLS after completing at least one year of service.
b) Any staff leaving MSRLS is entitled to full encashment of Earned Leave only subject to maximum limits prescribed under 
conditions. For encashment of leave, amount payable will be calculated as:
8
Amount Payable = (current basic pay/30) x No. of days of due leave .
7.1.6 Maternity Leave
a) All female staffs are eligible to avail Maternity Leave upon production of a medical certificate.
b) The period of leave granted may extend up to 3 months, subsequent to its date of commencement or six weeks subsequent to the 
date of confinement, whichever is earlier.
c) The leave would be considered as leave with pay
d) This leave is applicable even in case of a miscarriage, including abortion -  supported by a medical
certificate to that regard.
e) Maternity leave may be combined with any other leave.
f) Maternity leave shall not be debited against the leave account.
) Such leaves will be limited to two occasions subjected to the maximum number of 2 living children. Prior written approval 
must be taken from the COO before availing maternity Leave.
32

--- PAGE 33 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
7.1.7 Special Leave to women
All women staff is eligible to avail two days of special leave every month because of biological reason. This is in addition to all the 
other eligible leaves.
7.1.8 Paternity Leave
a) Male staff may be granted Paternity Leave on production of medical certificate of spouse.
b) Paternity leave shall be granted to a maximum of 15 days from its date of commencement. Period of leave must be within 15 
days before / 15 after the date of delivery.
c) Such leaves will be limited to two occasions subjected to the maximum number of 2 living children. Prior written approval must 
be taken from the COO before availing Paternity Leave. Any fraction in number of days shall be rounded of to the lower 
number of day.
7.1.9 Conditions of Admissibility of Leave
a) Leave shall be granted for all working days involved. Any Sunday/ Holiday which may fall during the leave period (except in 
case of EL) may not be counted as leave.
b) An application for leave must normally reach the office of the authority granting leave at least three working days before the 
date from which the leave is to be commenced. However, when an employee is unable to report for work due to illness or due to 
un-foreseen urgent circumstances, s/he may convey a message over the telephone or any other means to his/her supervisor and 
receiver of such message should record it in a register maintained for such calls. Once the employee returns to work, s/he should 
submit a leave form to cover her/his absence. In such cases, leave applications should be submitted and approved within two 
day of joining.
c) The EL can not be availed in anticipation of approval by the competent authority. The employee will avail EL only if it is 
approved on or before the date of leave. Any special consideration related to EL will only be done by COO.
d) Leave will not be normally granted for more than 15 days (excluding non-working days) in one spell. COO at her/his discretion 
may sanction leave in excess of 15 days in event of any emergency.
e) Merger of two different types of leaves will not be permissible except in case of maternity leave or by approval of COO.
f) Casual Leave (CL) may be approved by the reporting officer. The table provided in the next section defines the recommending 
and sanctioning authority of leave for all positions.
g) Casual Leave may be taken in terms of half day, for either the first or second half; the first half ending with conclusion of lunch 
interval and the second half beginning with the commencement of lunch interval.
h) Earned Leave (EL) will be taken for a minimum of three days. Only upon exhaustion of CL, EL can be taken for less than 3  
days. A written application should be submitted at least seven days before the date from which leave is requested.
33

--- PAGE 34 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
i) Extension of leave already granted shall not normally be allowed. COO at her/his discretion may grant extension in event of any 
emergency.
j) In case of non-compliance to any of the above norms, the COO shall have the full authority to treat the whole period of leave as 
leave without pay.
During leave, the salary of the staff shall be disbursed as per norms during normal period of work. Only Earned Leaves (EL) not 
availed will be carried forward to the next calendar year subject to a maximum of 12 days. For staffs joining in the middle of a 
financial year, number of leaves carried forward will be calculated on a pro-rata basis. The maximum limit for accumulation of 
leave shall not exceed 60 days.
In calculating Casual Leave, government declared holidays and Sundays should be excluded. Earned leave when it is to be spent 
outside the station includes Sundays and Government declared holidays falling within the period of such leave.
7.1.10 Authorization for recommendation and sanctioning of leave
Authority granting leave to an officer shall usually be the supervising officer to whom the employee is reporting for work, unless
9
otherwise specified by the COO. Following table details the sanctioning authority for leaves for all positions.
At State Project Management Unit
Nature Recommending Authority
S.No Name of Position Sanctioning Authority
of Leave
1 Chief Operating Officer
CL President -  MSRLS
EL As per Government Norms
2 Dy.Chief Operating Officer
CL Chief Operating Officer
EL Chief Operating Officer As per Government Norms
3 State Project Manager
CL Chief Operating Officer
EL NA Chief Operating Officer
4 Finance Officer
CL Chief Operating Officer
EL NA Chief Operating Officer
5 Procurement Specialist
CL Chief Operating Officer
EL Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer
6 Project Manager
CL Chief Operating Officer
EL State Project Manager Chief Operating Officer
34

--- PAGE 35 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
7 Procurement Assistant
CL Chief Operating Officer
EL Procurement Specialist Chief Operating Officer
8 System Analyst
CL Chief Operating Officer
EL
Dy. COO /Administrative 
Officer
Chief Operating Officer
9 Accountant
CL Chief Operating Officer
EL Finance Officer Chief Operating Officer
10 Office Assistant
CL Chief Operating Officer
EL
Dy. COO /Administrative 
Officer
Chief Operating Officer
11 Data Administrator
CL Chief Operating Officer
EL SPM-M & E Chief Operating Officer
12 Cashier
CL Chief Operating Officer
EL Finance Officer Chief Operating Officer
13 DTP Operator cum Designer
CL Chief Operating Officer
EL
Dy. COO /Administrative 
Officer
Chief Operating Officer
14 PA cum Steno to CEO/ Addl. 
CEO
CL Chief Operating Officer
EL
Dy. COO /Administrative 
Officer
Chief Operating Officer
*
The Society vests the authority to change the Leave Sanctioning Authority with the COO, whenever it is required.
35

--- PAGE 36 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
At District Project Coordination Unit:
Nature Recommending
Authority
S.No Name of Position
of Leave
Sanctioning Authority
CL
State Project Manager (in-
1 District Project Manager charge of concerned District)
EL State Project Manager Chief Operating Officer
2 District Training Coordinator
CL District Project Manager
EL District Project Manager Chief Operating Officer
3 District Functional Specialist
CL District Project Manager
EL District Project Manager Chief Operating Officer
4 District Training Officer
CL District Project Manager
EL District Project Manager Chief Operating Officer
5 Other Support Staff
CL District Project Manager
EL District Project Manager Chief Operating Officer
At Block Project Implementation Unit:
Nature Recommending
Authority
S.No Name of Position
of Leave
Sanctioning Authority
CL District Project Manager
1 Block Project Manager
EL
District Project Manager 
and SPM (Concerned)
Chief Operating Officer
2 Area Coordinator
CL Block Project Manager
EL Block Project Manager Chief Operating Officer
CL Area Coordinator
3 Community Coordinator
EL
Area coordinator and 
BPM
Chief Operating Officer
4
Accountant cum Office CL Block Project Manager
Assistant EL Block Project Manager Block Project Manager
5
CL Block Project Manager
Other Support Staff EL Block Project Manager Block Project Manager
Note: 1. EL of the officers on deputation shall be sanctioned as per the rules applicable to them. 
2. COO may further delegate the authority of sanctioning EL as and when required.
36

--- PAGE 37 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
7.2 Travel Rules
7.2.1. APPLICABILITY
These rules shall be applicable to all employees of the Society including :
i) All Category including SMD & Lien holders
ii) Those on deputation on foreign service terms, unless their terms of deputation 
provide otherwise;
iii) Trainees engaged under Society’s own training schemes;
iv) Contract Employees.
These rules shall also be applicable for the members of the State Mission Director, Executive Committee members when 
they are on tour for the Society. For this purpose, they shall be treated under category I.
7.2.2. SCOPE
These rules are applicable when an employee travels for official work inside/outside his/her place of posting. The area falling under 
place of posting for employees is given in the table below.
S NO Designation Area within Place of Posting
1 All BMMU staff (BPM, AC, CC) Entire Block
2 All DMMU Staff (DPM, DTC, 
DTO)
Block where the DMMU Office is located or more 
than 15 kms one way travel
3 State level Staff more than 15 kms one way travel
7.2.3. DEFINITIONS
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires;
1. “State Mission Director” and “SMD” mean ““State Mission Director” of the Society.
2. “Chief Operating Officer” and “COO” mean “Chief Operating Officer” of the Society.
3. “Dy.Chief Operating Officer” and “Dy.COO” mean ““Dy.Chief Operating Officer” of the Society.
4. “Executive Committee” mean Members of the Executive Committee of MSRLS.
5. “Society” / “Society” means Meghalaya State Rural Livelihoods Society.
37

--- PAGE 38 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
6. “Controlling Officer” means the officer empowered by the Management to approve and/or countersign the 
Travelling Allowance claim (including advance) in respect of employees working under his charge, in accordance 
with the powers delegated by the Management from time to time, for the purposes of these rules.
7. The executives at the level of “Dy.Chief Operating Officer” and above in the Society are declared as ‘Self­
controlling Officers.’  The COO reserves the right to extend the coverage of the term ‘Self-controlling Officer.’
8. “Day” means a calendar day beginning and ending midnight. This is for general reckoning only.
❖  “Headquarters” means the normal place of duty of an employee. In case of an employee deputed for training in
India or abroad, the Headquarters will mean the place of duty from where he proceeded on training, unless the 
same is changed in respect of an employee sent on long term training or assignment by a specific order.
9. In respect of a trainee, the headquarters shall mean the place of training at which he is posted. However, in case he 
is sent for undergoing training for more than twenty eight days, away from his place of posting, the place at which 
he so undergoes training shall be deemed to be his headquarters for the period of such training.
10. “Management” means the Executive Committee and if authorized by the Executive Committee a Committee of 
the Society.
11. “Official Tour” means travel on duty of an employee from his Headquarters in pursuance of official assignments.
12. “Capital Cities” means all State Capital Cities in the Country.
13. Transfer” means the movement of an employee from one Headquarters/station at which he is posted to another 
stations either (a) to take up the duties of a new post or (b) in consequence of a change of his headquarters.
14. Notwithstanding the above definition of transfer, the movements of a trainee, engaged under the Society’s own 
training scheme, during the period of training as well as that for joining his duties at the place of posting shall not be 
treated as transfer.
7.2.4. REIMBURSEMENT OF JOURNEY FARES
An employee on official tour will be entitled to Travelling Allowance which is intended to cover expenditure incurred in connection
with journeys performed for the Society’s work, as provided hereinafter.
7.2.4.1. The reimbursement of fares for journeys performed between the Headquarters station and tour station by the employees 
of various categories by different means of transport shall be as per the following entitlement, subject to actual.
38

--- PAGE 39 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
7.2.4.2. Nature of Entitlement:
Sl.
No.
Category Entitlement for travel
Rail Air Road
1 . Category I
Ist AC
Economy Class(Special 
cases -Executive Class)
Actual Taxi Fare
2. Category II IInd AC
Economy class with Prior 
Permission of COO
Actual AC/Deluxe Bus/Auto/Taxi Fare 
limited to Rs. 8/K.M.
3. Category III IIIrd AC
Special cases - Economy 
class with Prior Permission 
of COO
Actual Deluxe Bus/Auto/ Non AC Taxi Fare 
limited to Rs. 6/K.M. AC Taxi fare can be 
permitted in exceptional cases if prior 
approval has been taken.
4. Category IV
Sleeper Class
Special cases - Economy 
class with Prior Permission 
of COO
Actual Deluxe Bus/Auto/Taxi Fare limited 
to Rs. 4/K.M.
7.2.4.3. Chief Operating Officer / Dy. Chief Operating Officer may allow traveling on higher class in special cases.
7.2.4.4. Charges for sleeper accommodation, tatkal charges, super-fast train surcharge, reservation, telegram charges by 
railways for booking of tickets as well as telegram charges levied by airlines for reserving accommodation and, with the 
approval of the COO/Dy.COO, charges for cancellation of tickets for journey not undertaken due to official reasons 
will be reimbursable.
In addition, agency charges paid to travel agents for booking of tickets, subject to such monetary limit as may be 
prescribed from time to time by the Chief Operating Officer / Dy. Chief Operating Officer for each journey are also 
reimbursable on production of vouchers.
NOTE: The current monetary limit for reimbursement of agency charges paid by the employees to travel agents for 
booking of rail tickets is Rs.50/- per ticket for each journey. Reimbursement may be allowed on production of 
vouchers/receipts only. Reimbursement of agency charges for booking of Air Tickets on production of actual bills is 
permissible.
7.2.4.5. In exceptional cases, cancellation charges may be reimbursed, at the discretion of the Controlling Officer where the 
journey is not undertaken due to unforeseen mishap in her/his family.
7.2.4.6. Non-availability of reservation by train is not an acceptable reason for not performing the journey connected with 
official work. Also, in case of non-availability of accommodation in the entitled class and/or modes, a employee can 
travel by higher class but will be entitled only for the fare of designated class, unless specially allowed by COO.
39

--- PAGE 40 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
7.2.5 REIMBURSEMENT OF CONVEYANCE CHARGES:
An employee will also be entitled for reimbursement of actual conveyance charges for journeys between railway station/bus 
stand/airport and residence/place of stay either at Headquarters or tour stations and other official journeys performed by 
road at tour stations through means of conveyance other than Society’s transport. The reimbursement shall be regulated in 
accordance with the following sub-clauses.
7.2.5.1 For journeys to and from railway station/bus stand/airports, at Headquarters and tour stations, the reimbursement will 
be as per the following
Category Entitlements
Category I Actual charges by Taxi fare for all types of Vehicle
Category II
Actual charges by Taxi or three wheeler or fare of a single seat 
in a taxi, where availed, limited to Rs. 8.00 per Km in all cases. 
Or actual charges of Government approved prepaid Taxi/Auto 
services.
Category III
Actual charges by Taxi or three wheeler or fare of a single seat 
in taxi, where availed, limited to Rs. 6.00 per Km in the latter 
case. Or actual charges of Government approved prepaid 
Taxi/Auto services
Category IV
Within 3 Kms -  Rs. 20/- Within 4 to 8 Kms -  Rs.40/- Within 9 
to 15 Kms -Actual Fare of three wheelers/shared taxi, limited 
to Rs. 4/Km
Notwithstanding the above provision, the employee may be reimbursed actual charges of conveyance with 
permission of COO/ Dy. COO, wherever emergency arises.
7.2.5.2 It is clarified that in case of journeys between place situated in the Urban Agglomeration (UA) of ‘A’  Class cities such 
as Greater Mumbai, Greater Kolkatta and the like, journeys between places connected by rail should be undertaken by 
rail only and if the journeys are performed by road between such place, the reimbursement will be restricted to rail fare 
as per entitlement. However, self-controlling officers may undertake the journeys between such places by road at their 
discretion and the reimbursement will be allowed accordingly.
7.2.5.3 Employees proceeding on official tour for work in suburbs of ‘A’  class cities or contiguous industrial complex should 
normally stay in such places where the official work is to be performed. In case they choose to stay in the ‘A’  Class 
city proper, the journeys between the place of stay and the suburbs/contiguous industrial complex if connected by rail 
should be undertaken by rail, and in case the journey is performed by road between such places, the reimbursement will 
be restricted to rail fare as per entitlement. However, Self-controlling Officers may undertake the journeys between
40

--- PAGE 41 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
such places by road at their discretion and the reimbursement will be allowed accordingly.
7.2.5.4 In respect of the COO/Dy.COO/SPM who are entitled to staff car facility for official duties at their headquarters/tour 
stations as per their terms of appointment or otherwise, the restrictions laid down in sub-rule 7.2.3.1, 7.2.3.2 and 7.2.3.3 
will not apply and they will be reimbursed the actual cost of conveyance charges incurred by them at tour stations, if 
not provided with staff car facility at such stations.
7.2.5.5 At tour stations the employee will be entitled to travel by rail for local journeys to the places falling within urban 
agglomeration (as notified by Govt. of India from time to time for the purpose of HRA and CCA) of the relevant tour 
station.
7.2.6 DAILY ALLOWANCE
An employee on official tour will be entitled to daily allowance intended to cover expenses incurred on food and incidentals in the
course of traveling and for boarding and lodging at places other than headquarters, as provided hereinafter.
7.2.6.1 Daily allowance will be admissible at the following rate for Outside State:-
Allowance for food
Sl.
No Category
Accommodation charges subject to max. 
of (Rs./day)
& incidentals 
(Rs./Day)
Capital Cities (C) Other (O) C O
1 2 3 4 5 6
1 Category I
Limited to rent of a 
single room or suit in 
a five star Hotel
Limited to rent of 
a single room or 
suit in a five star 
Hotel
600 400
2 Category II 1500 1000 400 300
3 Category III 1000 750 300 250
4 Category IV 750 500 250 200
Actual room rent paid to Govt. /Semi Govt./ Corporation guest houses paid will be reimbursable, subject to maximum amount of 
column 3 or 4.
41

--- PAGE 42 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
7.2.6.2 Daily allowance will be admissible at the following rate for Inside Stater-
Sl.
No.
Category
Accommodation charges subject to 
max. of (Rs./day)
Allowance for food & 
incidentals (Rs./day)
1 2
3 4 5 6
C O C O
1
Category I
-
As per Actuals, 
limited to rent of a 
single room or suit 
in a five star Hotel
600 400
2 Category II 1500 1000 400 300
3 Category III 1000 750 300 250
4 Category IV 750 500 250 200
Notes:
A. COO/Dy.COO will, from time to time, issue circulars indicating the admissible rates based on details from the ITDC
St
Hotels which revise the tariffs w.e.f. 1  October of every year.
B. ‘C’  means State Capitals of the Country.
C. ‘O’  means other places.
D. Actual accommodation charges limited to the amounts as shown in column (3) in case of Capital cities and in column (4) in 
case of other places as in sub-rule 7.2.4.1 and 7.2.4.2 for stay in any hotel or any other guest house will be reimbursed 
subject to production of receipts. The limits of accommodation charges may be relaxed in exceptional cases on merit with 
the approval of the Chief Operation Officer.
7.2.4.3. For food and other incidental expenses, an employee will be paid as per column (5) and column (6) in case of stay at Capital 
cities and other places respectively.
7.2.4.4. An employee who does not produce receipts of accommodation charge will be paid daily allowance at the rates 
indicated in column (5) and column (6) for stay at Capital cities and other places respectively.
7.2.4.5. An employee, who having proceeded on official tour, returns to his Headquarters within a period of 24 hours from the 
time of his departure from his place of work/residence, will be entitled to daily allowance, at the rate applicable to the 
place of visit, as per following .
42

--- PAGE 43 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Period of Absence (Hrs) Admissible Allowance
Upto 6 hours Nil 6- 12 hours Half 12-24 Full
Provided that where the accommodation booking is for a full day, accommodation charges in full will be admissible. 
Notwithstanding what has been mentioned above, in case the absence from Headquarters involves overnight halt, full Daily 
Allowance shall be admissible to the place of visit.
7.2.4.6 In case an employee proceeds on official tour and the period of absence from Headquarters is for more than 24 hours 
from the time of his departure from his place of work/residence, he shall be entitled to daily allowance for his day of 
departure, from headquarters, day of arrival at the Headquarters and for each day in between as detailed here under:-
i)
ii)
DA for day of departure from place of duty-full DA if time of departure is 12.00 noon or before and half DA if time 
of departure is after 12.00 noon, at the rate of applicable to the place where the employee spent the first night (with 
reference to midnight).
DA for day of arrival back at place of duty-full DA if time of arrival is 12.00 noon or thereafter and half DA if time 
of arrival is before 12.00 noon , at the rate applicable to the place where the employee spent the preceding night 
(with reference to midnight).
7.2.4.7 The allowance will be admissible for the period of absence from Headquarters starting from the time of departure from 
place of work or residence, as the case may be, and the time of arrival at residence/place of work.
7.2.4.8 For prolonged halts, full daily allowance may be drawn for a period of 15 days and for a further period of 28 days, half 
daily allowance will be admissible. These limits relate to stay at any one station only. The COO may relax these 
conditions in special circumstances for an additional period upto 60 days with half daily allowance as different 
entitlements, as the case may be, irrespective of the place of stay. Notwithstanding the above provision, actual 
accommodation charges as per entitlement will be reimbursed, when daily allowance is not claimed.
7.2.4.9 Wherever calculation for daily allowance admissible for journey period is required to be necessarily made, the same is 
to be regulated on the basis of actual journey time involved starting from the time of departure from place of work or 
residence, as the case may be and ending at the time of arrival at residence/work place after suitably rounding off in 
case of period less than 24 hours as under :
Period of Absence (Hrs) Admissible Allowance
Upto 6 hours Nil 6- 12 hours Half 12-24 Full
7.2.4.10
th
If an employee is provided with both boarding and lodging free of cost, he will be entitled to draw 1/4 of the DA as
43

--- PAGE 44 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
7.2.4.11
per entitlement. If only lodging is provided free of charge, he will be paid allowance as per entitlement as the case may
th
be. If only boarding is provided free of cost, he will be paid 1/4 of the amount of the entitlement, in addition to 
charges for accommodation as per entitlement, subject to actuals as the case may be.
The daily allowance will be admissible for journey periods, all halts on tour and holidays occurring during the period of 
halt subject to the provision in sub-rule 7.2.4.13 but the same will not be admissible for the period of leave of any kind 
availed while on tour. If an employee breaks journey enroute due to personal reasons, he shall not be paid the daily 
allowance for such period (s) of halt.
7.2.4.12 An employee who is in receipt of House Rent Allowance or is provided with government/ Society’s leased 
accommodation, for keeping his family at a station other than his headquarters, will be entitled when on tour to such
th
station to draw only 1/4 of the daily allowance as per entitlement, as applicable in addition to the allowance 
admissible for the period spent on journeys between headquarters station and tour station.
7.2.4.13 The places, at which duration (more than 28 days) training arrangements are made for the trainees, shall be deemed to 
be the headquarters. Accordingly, no TA/DA etc. shall admissible to the trainees for their stay at such place. However, 
when the trainees are required to be sent for their Headquarters for short duration to other places for work visits, 
practical demonstration etc. as part of their training; they will be entitled to TA/DA etc. as per rules. For this purpose, 
any period of stay up to 28 days at a particular outstation shall be treated as short duration visits. In case the stay 
exceeds 28 days at any one outstation, the Headquarters of the trainees would be deemed to have been changed from 
previous place to the new place of training.
7.2.4.14 When the trainees move from one Headquarters to another, the TA/DA etc. for the journey period will be admissible to 
them; and they will be entitled to bare journey time only, but no preparation time.
7.2.4.15 When the trainees are recalled from outstation to Headquarters at the fag end of their training for final appraisal and 
placement etc., and if the period of stay at Headquarters during the period of training is not more than 28 days, the same 
will be treated as on tour and accordingly, TA/DA etc. will be admissible to them.
7.2.4.16 If a trainee is sent on official tour other than training TA/DA etc. shall be admissible to him as per his entitlement. 
Recourse to this provision can be taken only in very exceptional cases with specific approval of Controlling Officer.
7.2.5 MISCELLANEOUS INCIDENTAL CHARGES ON OFFICIAL TOUR.
7.2.5.1 The following tour incidental expenses if actually incurred will also be reimbursed on production of receipts:
i)
ii)
The excess baggage charges for carrying official records;
The expenses on account of official telephone calls (local and trunk) and fax/telex/telegram/phonogram if
specifically sanctioned by the Controlling Officer;
iii) Any other expenses, not covered hereinbefore, incidental to and incurred during the course of tour, at the discretion of the 
COO/Dy.COO.
44

--- PAGE 45 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
7.2.5.2 In exceptional cases, on merits, the COO/Dy.COO may permit employees to travel by a class/mode higher than their 
entitlement.
7.2.5.3 The rate of reimbursement for road journey as well as daily allowance rates as mentioned above under different 
entitlements may be reviewed annually by the COO with consent of President of Executive Committee who shall 
have the powers to change the rates subject to a maximum variation of 25% of the prevailing rates on one such 
occasion, keeping in view the trends in prices of petroleum products, boarding and lodging charges and other relevant 
factors.
7.2.6 ADVANCE:
7.2.6.1 An employee proceeding on official tours outside the District and State may be granted an advance to meet the 
expenses towards travelling allowance as per his entitlement to the tune of 100% of the anticipated fares for journey(s) 
and anticipated amount towards daily allowance and conveyance charges for a duration not exceeding 28 days at one 
time. The request for advance should be made on the prescribed form, duly countersigned by the Controlling Officer.
7.2.6.2 In case of advances covered under rules 7.2.6.1, the advance towards journey fare, conveyance charges and daily 
allowance may be drawn within a period not exceeding 28 (twenty eight) and 60(sixty) days respectively before the 
proposed date of journey but shall have to be refunded forthwith if the employee is not able to produce documentary 
evidence to show that the amount of advance has been utilized for the purpose of tickets within 15 days of the drawal of 
advance.
7.2.6.3 An account of advance under this rule shall be rendered by the employee immediately after completion of the journey 
and in no case later than 30 (thirty) days from the date of completion of return journey, wherever applicable.
7.2.6.4 An employee shall not be granted an advance towards travelling allowance under these rules, if he has failed to render 
the account of advance(s) earlier drawn by him except with the approval of Controlling Officer in each case.
7.2.6.5 In case of failure to produce the documentary evidence/account of advance as required, the advance sanctioned shall be 
recovered from the employee’s salary and/or otherwise.
7.2.7 CLAIM
7.2.7.1 Claims for reimbursement of travelling allowance in all applicable cases will be entertained only on completion of the 
return journey, wherever applicable.
7.2.7.2 Claims for reimbursement of journey fare (other than IInd Class rail fare) and baggage allowance, wherever applicable,
45

--- PAGE 46 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
must be supported with adequate proof of the amount of expenditure incurred such as ticket number/money 
receipt/ticket folder (in case of air journey).
7.2.7.3 All claims for journeys undertaken under these rules should be preferred in the prescribed proforma, within the time 
limit of 30 (thirty) days as prescribed in rule 7.2.6.3, duly countersigned by the Controlling Officer/supervising 
authority.
7.2.7.4 Claims for reimbursement of traveling allowance after one month will not be entertained normally except with the 
special approval of COO/Dy.COO, when he is satisfied that non-submission of the claim on the part of an employee 
was due to reasons beyond his control. .
7.2.8 LOCAL TRAVEL
The provisions of this section shall apply to local journeys performed by the employees at their headquarters in connection with the
Society’s work as provided hereinafter but shall not apply to local journeys performed by Society’s trainees in connection with their
training at their headquarters.
NOTE:
i) In case an employee is deputed to undergo training within a radius of 15 Kms/municipal limits of his headquarters, 
for a period of more than 28 days on a continuous basis and is normally not expected to get to his place of duty 
everyday after attending training, the headquarters of the employee concern shall be deemed to have been shifted to 
the place where he is required to undergo training; and accordingly, s/he shall not be entitled to reimbursement of 
local traveling expenditure for local journeys performed by him between his residence and the place of training.
ii) For local journeys performed by an employee, in connection with Society’s work, within his normal place of duty 
such as from his office to temporary/permanent Township etc. by his own conveyance, reimbursement of local 
traveling expenditure shall be admissible at the rate of Rs. 5 per kilometer for four wheeler and Rs. 2.5 per 
kilometer for two wheeler as per his/her entitlement.
7.2.8.1 Definition
❖  “Local Journey” means any journey performed by an employee in connection with Society’s work within a radius 
of 15 kms from the headquarters or within municipal limits of the headquarters, whichever is more.
❖  “Local Traveling Expenditure” means the expenses incurred by an employee on local journey and includes 
conveyance charges.
7.2.8.2 Entitlement
The reimbursement of conveyance charges for journeys performed by the employees of various categories by different means of 
transport shall be as per the following entitlement, subject to actual.
46

--- PAGE 47 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
7.2.8.3 Nature of Entitlement :
Category Entitlements
Category I Actual charges by Taxi fare for all types of Vehicle
Category II
Actual charges by Taxi or three wheeler or fare of a single seat in a taxi, where availed, limited to Rs. 8.00 per 
Km in all cases. Or actual charges of Government approved prepaid Taxi/Auto services.
Category III
Actual charges by Taxi or three wheeler or fare of a single seat in taxi, where availed, limited to Rs. 6.00 per 
Km in the latter case. Or actual charges of Government approved prepaid Taxi/Auto services.
Category IV
Within 3  Kms -  Rs. 20/- Within 4 to 8 Kms -  Rs.40/- Within 9 to 15 Kms -Actual Fare of three 
wheelers/shared taxi, limited to Rs. 4/Km
For journeys to places within municipal limits of the headquarters (including the areas coming under urban agglomeration as 
notified by the Govt. for the purpose of HRA and CCA from time to time) an employee may choose either of the mode of travel 
namely rail or road depending upon his convenience; but the reimbursement will be as per actuals restricted to his entitlement.
7.2.8.3 Charges for waiting/halting of taxi/three-wheeler, where unavoidable, will also be reimbursable at the discretion of the 
respective controlling officer.
7.2.8.4 When the journey, performed within municipal limits commences from and or terminates at residence of an employee, 
he will be reimbursed actual conveyance charges. In case of journey to outside municipal limits actual conveyance 
charges will be reimbursed. Provided, however, if an employee is deputed to a place other than the office/place of work 
on a holiday, and the journey commences from and ends at the residence of the employee, he will be allowed 
conveyance charges from his residence to the place where deputed and back as admissible.
7.2.8.5 The COO/Dy.COO may permit travel by a mode higher than the entitlement of an employee in the following exception 
cases:
i) In case of journey commencing from the office/place of work:
Outward journey only, when an employee is required to perform the same on urgent basis;
ii) In case where an employee is directed to perform the official work on urgent basis on his way from residence to 
office/place of work, for the portion of the journey from the place of visit to office/place of work; and
iii) When the journeys are performed during odd hours and the public transport/entitled mode of transport is not 
available during such hours.
47

--- PAGE 48 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
7.2.8.6 The COO/Dy.COO shall have the powers to permit an employee to travel by a mode higher than his entitlement in 
other special circumstances on merits of individual cases, for reasons recorded in writing.
7.2.8.7 An employee who performs local journey shall return to the Headquarters on the same day immediately after the work 
is over. However, in exceptional cases, if the employee is required to stay overnight, due to lack of availability of 
transport or the nature of work being such that it could not be completed on the same day, he will be paid daily 
allowance in accordance with the relevant provisions, subject to the approval of the concerned Controlling Officer.
7.2.8.8 The rate of reimbursement for road journey may be reviewed annually by the Chief Operating Officer, who shall have 
the powers to increase/decrease the rates subject to the maximum variation of 25% of the prevailing rates on one such 
occasion, keeping in view the increase/decrease in prices of petroleum products, eatables and other relevant factors.
7.2.8.9 No advance shall be admissible to meet the likely expenditure in connection with the local journeys.
7.2.8.10 For all the journeys performed in a week, a single claim for reimbursement should be preferred.
7.2.8.11 Every claim should be preferred in the prescribed proforma, duly countersigned by the Controlling Officer, 
within a period not exceeding 15 days from the date of completion of the journey(s), beyond which it will not be 
entertained normally. However, COO may relax the time limit for a further period of 15 days at his discretion in 
deserving cases. No claim shall be entertained after expiry of the period of one months from the date of 
completion of the journey(s) and the same shall stand forfeited.
7.2.8.12 Local Travel -  Mobility Expense
These norms are applicable in case of the field staff (at DMMU and BMMU) who travel within the place of posting (as defined 
earlier) on official duty. Those field employees, who possess a motor bike of their own and use it for Project purposes, will be 
entitled for mobility expense @ Rs 2.50 per km. For this, duly filled log book shall be maintained and produced before the 
concerned BPMs, DPMs, DTC and SPMs. The maximum limit for reimbursement of mobility expenses will be as per following 
details.
Sl Categories Positions Maximum limit of kilometer traveled per month
1 Category II DPM 1000
2 Category III DTC, DTO and BPM 1000
3 Category III Area Coordinator 800
4 Category IV Community Coordinator 500
48

--- PAGE 49 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
7.2.8.13 Additional Benefits for Female Staff
a) For female staff, an additional 25% over and above the prescribed rates for lodging would be permissible in case they are 
traveling alone outside their place of posting.
b) In cases when they have to stay at work after office hours due to meetings, etc, an official vehicle would be made available to 
drop them home.
7.2.9 PROVISIONS FOR TRAVEL CLAIM IN CASE OF FOREIGN TOURS
It is expected that only Category I and II staff would travel abroad on official duty. All categories that travel abroad, special 
provisions may be made as approved by the President of the Society on recommendation of State Mission Director /COO.
The cost of obtaining a visa, and other costs related to travel (travel insurance, etc) would be borne by the Society.
An advance to cover the probable cost of the entire duration of travel would be provided to the staff traveling abroad. An additional 
amount (not exceeding 20% of the probable cost) would also be given as advance to cover any exigencies.
In case a staff travels abroad on official duty, the travel costs would be covered as per provisions to be notified by the Society.
7.2.10 GENERAL
7.2.10.01 Unless otherwise specified, relaxations of any nature as provided under these rules can be approved by 
the COO, in respect of self-controlling Officers, if any.
7.2.10.02 All claims for travelling allowance/local travelling expenditure under these rules are to be preferred 
with respect to the material facts as regards pay existing at the time when the journeys were 
undertaken.
7.2.10.03 In no circumstances, arrears payment/recovery will be made/effected due to increase/decrease in pay 
for any reason whatsoever subsequent to the submission of claims.
7.2.10.04 The President, State Mission Director and Chief Operating Officer is empowered to make amendments 
to these rules which involve changes of a minor nature.
7.2.10.05 In case of any doubt in regard to interpretation of any of the provisions of these rules, the matter will 
be referred to the President , State Mission Director and Chief Operating Officer whose decision shall 
be final.
7.2.10.06 Incidental expenses incurred while on tour can be self verified for bills up to Rs 100. In such cases, two 
signatories, have to attest the bill.
7.2.10.07 Incidental expenses on account of meetings with field staff, consultants and with other stakeholders is 
permitted up to a limit of Rs 1000 per trip for SPMs, FO, and Rs 500 per trip for PMs and DPMs.
49

--- PAGE 50 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
7.2.10.08 The travel claim shall be verified by the controlling officer/supervising authority before submission to 
accounts for reimbursement/ settlement of travel advance. The claim form once verified and signed, 
has to be accepted by the accounts. In case of any discrepancy, the accounts shall seek explanation and 
clarify its reservations from the concerned employee within a maximum of seven working days. This 
clarification could be sought over the email, phone or in writing.
7.2.10.09 Deductions made, if any, have to be informed in writing or through email to the concerned employee 
giving explanation for the reasons of deductions.
7.2.10.10 Any unspent advances will be settled within fifteen working days, or along with the submission of the 
travel bills to accounts. The accounts should issue a receipt of the amount received.
7.2.11 WORKING HOURS & ATTENDANCE
a) All MSRLS offices shall be opened from 10.00 hours to 17.00 hours on every working day for official duties. However the 
nature of work may require different working hours at times and hence office timings could be flexibile across individuals and 
locations.
b) Lunch interval for an employee shall be from 1:15 to 1:45 pm.
c) An attendance register must be kept in every office, in which the time of arrival and departure of all staff of the MSRLS should 
be written, with his/her signature. In case a staff is on official tour or leave, the attendance register will be marked “T” or “L” by 
a person authorized by Head of office.
d) A monthly statement showing attendance and leave taken by staff if any would be prepared for all locations and maintained 
with the accounts unit at the head office for accounting purpose / Earned Leave and Casual leave Software may be prepared.
8. PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
8.1 Objectives of Performance Management System
Performance management is an integral part of a comprehensive human resource management strategy. Its objective is to maximize 
staff performance and potential with a view to attaining organisational goals and enhancing overall effectiveness and productivity. A 
performance management system aims: -
❖  To enhance Performance of individuals/Teams/ and thus help achieve Project objectives. Projects formulate strategies 
and objectives to support their vision, mission and values. To achieve these broad objectives, the teams have to turn them 
into specific objectives and targets for the districts, and subsequently individual job objectives and targets for 
implementation. Performance Management acts as a tool to define and focus on critical elements on which the overall 
performance of the organization depends.
❖  To enhance self esteem of the staff by rewarding performance The staff performance management system provides a 
mechanism to monitor and evaluate staff/ team performance. Performance objectives are set at the beginning of the 
performance management cycle through open discussion between the Project Management and the teams. Progress is
50

--- PAGE 51 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
monitored regularly and feedback from staff is collated to help clarify objectives and output expectation; and to enhance 
performance. Teams which perform are then recognized and rewarded for their achievements. Thus the system should also 
be seen as a tool for enhancing the self esteem of the performing employee and to bring in a culture of healthy competition 
to perform.
❖  To identify gaps in performance and pave way for future capacity building The performance management system 
serves as a multi-purpose management tool. It provides valuable information to help identify gaps in performance and 
hence training needs of staff/ teams to develop their potential further.
8.2 Guiding Principles of Performance Management System
(i) As far as possible, the System should be based on clear and simple Key Performance Areas (KPA), each of which will be 
defined with Key Performance Indictors (KPI). These should be linked with the action plan for the State/ District/ Block
Levels.
(ii) The methods of verification of Key Performance Areas should be developed to make the process transparent.
(iii) The system should look at the team as a unit of assessment as well. The rewards should be based on the performance of the 
individual as well as that of the team.
8.3 Measuring Performance
What would be assessed? (Key Result Areas)
The Project Implementation Plan lists three broad objectives for the Project. There are a number of activities which would be 
performed to achieve these three broad objectives. These are:
i. Building and strengthening inclusive Organizations of the Poor
ii. Improving their access to credit & Livelihoods Opportunities
iii. Supporting capacity enhancement of public, private and non governmental service providers for credit & livelihoods 
support services for Poor & their organizations.
The Performance Management System would focus on monitoring the performance of the Project on these three broad objectives 
which would be the basis of defining the Key Result Areas for the staff. To deliver these, efficient business processes have to 
defined and implemented. The Performance Management system would also monitor how well the business processes are 
conducted.
The role of the district and the state teams are more in the realm of building the capacity of the rest of the staff, ensuring technical 
resources are available to the Block and the Village institutions, while the key role of the Block Teams is ‘action’  which will be 
measured to assess performance.
From these broadly defined objectives, the Project would prepare Annual Action Plans. From these plans, indicators on which 
performance would be measured would be developed. Thus a new set of KPIs would be developed every year, once the annual
51

--- PAGE 52 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
action plan for the project has been finalized. The process for developing the KPIs for Year 2 and every subsequent year has been 
indicated in the section - Actionalizing Performance Management System. The schedule assumes a January to December cycle 
annually, so that increments could be announced by end of March for the next financial year.
How will Performance be assessed?
Performance assessment would be done mainly through two sources.
a. By collecting secondary data from the MIS Reports. As far as possible, all quantitative data related to performance (viz. no. 
of groups formed, amount of money disbursed etc) would be collected directly from the Monitoring & Evaluation System of the 
project.
b. Through assessment of quality by collecting data directly from the field. This would entail field visits and meetings, getting 
data from minutes books of people’s institutions promoted etc.
In case the project envisages incorporating other systems like Process Monitoring, community score cards etc, the qualitative 
data could be sourced from these reports to obtain data regarding performance.
Who will be assessed?
All staff working in the project including those on deputation would be assessed. Apart from measuring individuals, team 
performances too would be assessed.
Defining the Team:
The Block Team would consist of the following:
1  Block Project Manager
2 Area Coordinators
3 Community Coordinators
4 Accountant cum Office Assistant
The District Project Implementation Unit team would consist of the following
1  District Project Manager
2 District Training Coordinator
3 District Training Officer
4 Functional Specialist
52

--- PAGE 53 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
The State Project Management Unit Team would consist of the following
1  State Mission Director.
2 COO cum Project Director
3 Dy. COO cum Resource Mobilisation & Administration.
4 State Project Manager -  Monitoring & Evaluation , Learnings.
5 State Project Manager - HRD
6 State Project Manager -  Microfinance
7 State Project Manager -  Institution & Capacity Building
8 State Project Manager -  Communication
9 State Project Manager -  Livelihoods
10 State Project Manager -  Social Development
11 Project Manager -  Microfinance
12 Project Manager -  Institution & Capacity Building
13 Project Manager -  Communication
14 Project Manager -  Livelihoods
15 Project Manager -  Social Development
16 Finance Officer
17 Accounts Team -  comprising Cashier and Accountant
18 Administrative Team -  comprising Office Assistant, Procurement Assistant, Data Administrator, PA cum Steno and 
DTP Operator
19 System Analyst
Additional posts created during the Project, would be added to the respective teams.
Define Performance Year
The period of January 1  to December 31 of a calendar year is defined as the performance year. Since the financial year is from April 
1  to March 31, the lead-time between January 1  to March 31 can be the period when all appraisals are completed in the organization 
and necessary advice be passed on to the finance section for award of performances.
Identifying Key Persons for coordinating Performance Management
A key person is needed to anchor the system at the State as well as the District Level. The SPM -  HR, PM -  HR and the DPM 
would be the key persons responsible for managing the Performance Management System. These persons would be responsible for 
collating all the necessary data for performance appraisal.
53

--- PAGE 54 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
8.4 Actionalizing Performance Management System
The table below identifies steps through which the Performance Management System would be implemented.
S No Component Process Key Responsibility
Step 1  :  Finalization of Project Action Plan Dy. COO & F.O
1
Identification of 
KPIs10 (for the 
Assessment
Step 2 :  Finalizing KPIs at all levels through regional 
workshops (quantitative & qualitative, individual & 
team performance)
Dy. COO & SPM - HRD
Period) Step 3: Official communication of final KPIs across 
levels
Dy. COO, PM - HRD & DPMs
Step 1  :  Consolidation of quantitative indicators for 
each from MIS data.
PM - HRD & DPMs (for dist 
level)
Step 2a :  Formation of teams for qualitative assessment 
of performance of Field Teams. Team Leader for each 
team assigned.
SPM - HRD and AO
2
Performance
Step 2b :  Qualitative assessment of performance. Respective Team Leader
Assessment Step 3 :  Consolidation of scores PM -  HRD DPMs (for dist 
level)
Step 4a :  Forming appraisal teams for personal 
appraisal interviews.
Dy. COO & SPM -  HRD
Step 4b :  Personal Interview with the appraisee. 
Submission of Final Appraisal Report
Team Leader of appraisal 
interview.
3
Identification of 
Capacity Building 
Needs
Step 1  :  Analysis and consolidation of areas identified 
as weak/average. This could be done at two levels -  i) 
Team based (Field Teams, DMMU, SPMU) or ii) 
Position based (Team Leaders, Area Coordinators, 
DTOs, etc)
Dy. COO & SPM -  HRD
Step 2 :  Communicating CB needs to the SPM -  I & 
CB for initiating CB initiatives
Dy. COO & SPM -  HRD
Step 1  :  Categorizing staff based on performance for 
monetary reward.
Dy. COO & SPM -  HRD
4 Rewarding Step 2: Finalizing non monetary rewards Dy. COO & SPM -  HRD
Step 3 :  Organizing Performance Rewards Function for 
recognizing and awarding the performers
Dy. COO & SPM -  HRD
54

--- PAGE 55 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Component 1 : Identification of Key Performance Indicators
As indicated earlier, the Key Result Areas and Key Performance Indicators would flow from the Overall Project Objectives 
and Annual Action Plan for the year. Defined and refined time to time by the Society in the aegis of the Project The 
reference design of KPIs for staff at BMMU, DMMU and SPMU are provided in Annexure 5A. These KPIs will vary from 
time to time as per progress in the project and changing role of the project staff. Hence the annual KPIs will finally be 
prepared in the beginning of the each project year. The and SPM -  HR will be responsible for preparing the KPIs in 
consultation with team and COO.
Component 2 : Performance Assessment
Most of the indicators can be measured by the data provided by the MIS system of the Project. It would be the responsibility of the 
PM- HRD to obtain the necessary data needed for performance assessment from the MIS system.
It would be the responsibility of the SPM -  HRD to compile data from any other source in case required.
The Field Team assessment scores would be compiled and shared with them by the concerned DPC along with one representative 
from the SPMU.
Component 3 : Identification of Capacity Building Needs
The appraising team would identify areas of growth and capacity building for staff based on the performance and data from one to 
one interaction. Areas in which performance is below 60% could be explored for further capacity building. This could be done at the 
time of the Personal Interview with each staff for reviewing Performance Appraisal Scores.
These would be consolidated by the DPC (for all Block Teams) and PM -  HRD (for all DMM and SMMU staff). The areas 
emerging as capacity building needs would be shared with the SPM -  CB and a plan to address the gaps will be developed and 
approved by the COO.
8.5 Qualitative Assessment
In case where a system is not functional through which data on quality of performance can be assimilated, an alternative design of 
assessing quality of work done would be taken into consideration.
The quality of the institutions (SHGs, Federations, Producer Groups etc,) formed among the community and the strength of the 
livelihoods promoted would also be assessed. At least 5% (or 10, which ever is lower) of the Institutions promoted should be visited 
by the assessment team to look at quality of work done. The design principles followed include
55

--- PAGE 56 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
1  Prioritizing parameters according to the goals of the project.
2 Identifying source of data to assess and verify performance
3 Developing a range of scores to assess quality
4 Defining each score to assist panelists and standardize across Districts.
Annexure 5B provides a reference format for the assessment of quality of SHGs, Federations, and Producer Groups promoted by 
the Block. This format may be revised as per need and field situation with consent of the COO.
Assessment Team and the Procedure A team of 3-4 persons comprising one SPM, One DPM, One PM, one Block Project Manager 
(two leaders of well performing community institutions may be included as part of the assessment team in later years) would be 
formed for assessment. This Assessment team should comprise of staff from another Project district/s (than the district for which 
assessment is being made). They should visit a sample of 5% (or at least 10 institutions SHGs/Federations/Producer Groups) of the 
institutions promoted. Each team member should give her/his own score on the sheet. Once the field visits are completed, a 
consolidated score from all the team members should be developed, and scores awarded to the Team.
The scores of quantitative as well as qualitative assessment would be consolidated to arrive at one final score for the individual/ 
team. Based on this score the performance would be rewarded.
Annexure 5C provides a format for consolidation of scores.
8.6 Rewarding Performance
A combination of monetary and non monetary incentive system based on performance would be awarded. The details are provided 
below.
8.6.1 Monetary Incentive
The following monetary incentives as “Annual Performance Pay” will be provided.
Performance
Sl
Score
Score According to Grade Incentive
1 Those scoring overall Grade ‘A’ Target Achievement 100% or above 15% of remuneration their total
2 Those scoring overall 
Grade ‘B’
Target Achievement 91 -  99% 10% of remuneration their total
3 Those scoring overall 
Grade ‘C’
Target Achievement 75 -  90% 5% of remuneration their total
4 Those scoring overall 
Grade ‘D’
Less than 75% No performance incentive
56

--- PAGE 57 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
9 CAPACITY BUILDING NEEDS ASSESSMENT
i) Recognition: Three best performing Block Team Shield the project will be across 
instituted and awarded. The basis for selection would be the overall performance score.
(in case of a tie, the SPMU would make the judgment).
ii) Similarly a best performing DMMU Shield would also be instituted. These awards will be 
presented to the best teams in an event organized for the entire Project.
iii) The best performing BMMU/DMMU/SPMU team members can be nominated and sponsored 
to attend short term courses such as MDP (management development programmes) at 
institutions such as IIMs, IRMA, NIRD, XLRI etc. The decision on this can be taken by the COO.
iv) In case of a member/ team is awarded an overall ‘A’  Grade for two consecutive years, 
s/he (or the entire team) could be sent for an exposure visit outside the state. The 
decision on this can be taken by the COO.
v) Further incentives will be designed by COO as and when required.
MSRLS would endeavour to build the capacity of its staff from time to time in order to promote personal growth of the staff as well 
as improve the quality of work within the Project. A Capacity Building strategy is being put in place which would ensure that all 
staff operates at the optimal skill and knowledge levels as required by the Society. All staff would undergo the induction programme 
as well as various capacity building programmes designed for staff at various levels. These would include exposure visits to other 
similar Projects.
Moreover, to focus on the growth of the individual, MSRLS would try and identify the strengths and the areas which could be 
further improved. These areas of growth would be identified from the following:
9.1 The Performance Management System identifies the key result areas of each staff. Those indicators in which the staff has 
scored low would be identified from the KPIs. Accordingly capacity building programme would be proposed and executed 
by SPM -  HR.
9.2 As part of performance assessment, a one to one interaction with the staff is proposed. All areas identified, would be 
presented and discussed with the staff during this interaction. Based on this, areas of capacity building would be identified 
and appropriate programmes would be designed by SPM - HR in consultation with SPM - Capacity Building.
The SPM - HR would follow up with the SPM - Capacity Building or Training Cell to ensure that the required inputs as identified 
are provided to the staff.
10 GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL SYSTEM
MSRLS recognizes that grievances are incidental to the work environment and that they need to be positively addressed and 
resolved. A Grievance Redressal Mechanism has been formulated towards providing a channel to staff across all levels for 
expressing a grievance and seeking quick redressal.
57

--- PAGE 58 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
The Grievance Redressal Mechanism has the following precepts:
❖  That every grievance needs to be heard and resolved
❖  That redressal delayed implies redressal denied
❖  That the mechanism is not an alternative for the normal official channels, but an additional channel for staff to 
seek redressal for their grievances when the official channel fails to provide quick and satisfactory responses.
10.1 Definition of Grievance
It is a cause or source of grief or hardship or burden or distress. In the context of the work environment, the aforesaid maybe of 
various types such as:
1  Those related to terms of service and benefits and their interpretations. Examples under this category would be issues
related to leave, working beyond normal hours, workload etc.
2 Those related to the work environment. Examples under this category would be issues related to cleanliness of premises, 
space for functioning, furniture etc
3 Those relating to interpersonal relationships, discipline and conduct of colleagues
4 Those related to Sexual Harassment
5 Others not falling under the above mentioned categories.
A nodal person from within the team at the state as well as at the district level would be identified who could be approached by all 
other for lodging their grievance. This person could be nominated by the SMD/COO.
A three to four member committee to settle grievances should be constituted at the district (District Grievance Redressal Committee) 
as well as at the state level (State Grievance Redressal Committee). At district level, PM -  HRD and the nodal person (of the 
concerned district) should be as members in the committee. Other member/s could be nominated by the COO. At state level there 
should be SPM -  HRD and the nodal person (at the state level) as its members. Remaining member/s could be nominated by COO. 
At least one person in the each of the committees should be a woman.
Each of the committees would maintain grievance lodging register which would be kept with the concerned nodal person. An 
acknowledgement of the lodged grievance would be issued (in writing or through mail) by him/her within an hour of its receipt. 
There should be a separate minute’s book with each of the committees where all proceedings of meeting among members would be 
recorded.
Step 1 :
The person lodging a grievance shall have to provide all the details of the same to the nodal person. This could be done through a 
letter, email or any written communication. In case of immediate attention, s/he could be contacted over phone, but a written 
confirmation should follow.
58

--- PAGE 59 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Step 2 :
For grievance emerging at BMMU and DMMU level.
The nodal person would first determine whether the grievance relates to local issues or staff or to the policies of the Society.
In case the grievance relates to local issues or staff, the nodal person would determine whether it could be handled by the District 
Grievance Redressal Committee or whether it should be referred to the State Grievance Redressal Committee. In case the grievance 
can be handled by the District Grievance Redressal Committee, the nodal person would make a reference to it and place it before the 
committee within two days of the receipt of grievance. The District Grievance Redressal Committee would convene, look into the 
grievance and resolve it within ten days of the referral of the grievance. The Committee would also give a confirmation report to the 
State Grievance Redressal Committee through SPM -  HRD and the nodal person.
In case, the District Grievance Redressal Committee fails to resolve the issue, or the grievance is beyond it, the same should be 
referred with note by the nodal person to the State Grievance Redressal Committee within the prescribed period of five days.
All other issues (including those that cannot be resolved by the District Grievance Redressal Committee) would be referred to the 
SPM -  HRD by the nodal person. The SPM - HRD would place the matter before the State Grievance Redressal Committee with the 
requisite details. The State Grievance Redressal Committee would look into the matter and resolve the issue within a period of five 
days of the receipt of the reference and confirm the same to the nodal person who had referred the grievance.
Staff at SPMU level would loge their grievance directly to the state nodal person. The nodal person would refer the issue with 
his/her note to the State Grievance Redressal Committee. The State Grievance Redressal Committee would look into the matter and 
resolve the issue within a period of ten days of the receipt of the grievance.
10.2 Sexual Harassment
In India, “sexual harassment” is defined as any unwelcome sexual determined behaviour (whether direct or by implication) such as
❖  Physical contact or advances
❖  A demand or request for sexual favours
❖  Sexual coloured remarks
❖  Showing pornography
❖  Any other unwelcome physical, verbal or non-verbal conduct of a sexual nature.
Thus direct or implied request by any staff for sexual favours in exchange for actual or promised job benefits such as favourable 
reviews, salary increases, promotions, increased benefits or continued employment constitutes sexual harassment.
Unwelcome sexually determined behaviour shall include but not be limited to the following instances 
a) Where submission to or rejection of sexual advances, requests or conduct is made either explicitly
59

--- PAGE 60 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
or implicitly a term or condition of employment or as a basis for employment decisions or 
b) Such advances, requests or conduct (whether direct or implied) have the purpose of effect of
interfering with an individual’s work performance by creating an intimidating, hostile, humiliating 
or sexually offensive work environment.
11.DISCIPLINARY CONTROL SYSTEM
11.1 Introduction
Disciplinary action is warranted only in a situation wherein an employee commits any act of misconduct. The objective of a 
disciplinary action is to inform the employee the type of behavior desired. It is also expected to act as a deterrent for others.
All lapses, acts of misconduct, fraud, neglect of duty, indiscipline, discourtesy, insubordination, general inefficiency and 
contravention of any official instructions or directions already issued or that may be issued from time to time can therefore be dealt 
with disciplinary action. These acts mentioned above are illustrative and other acts as defined by the Society could be included later 
on.
Misconduct is an act which is inconsistent with the fulfillment of expressed or implied conditions of service. It has a material 
bearing on the smooth and efficient working of the Society or which is otherwise considered a criminal act by the law of the 
country.
An act of misconduct can be broadly classified as follows.
a) Minor acts of misconduct -  acts of misconduct which are not of a serious nature.
b) Major acts of misconduct -  acts of misconduct which are of a serious nature
Examples of those classifications are given in Annexure - 6
11.2 Action by authorized officers
The power of dismissal and disciplinary control of employees of MSRLS is vested with the Executive Committee. The MSRLS may 
delegate its disciplinary powers to the COO and Dy. COO.
In the case of minor acts of misconduct
(i) The employee may be cautioned verbally and an entry made in his or her personal record.
(ii) If the offence requires more than a verbal caution, the authorized official may call upon the concerned employee to furnish
60

--- PAGE 61 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
his or her explanation in writing and caution or advice.
In the case of major acts of misconduct, where the Society considers that the interest of the Society is adversely affected, the 
employee would be relieved of his or her duties without any notice once he is found guilty of it.
Where disciplinary action is contemplated against a staff of the Society, a preliminary investigation would be conducted to ascertain 
the facts fully and collect necessary evidence in the act of misconduct. Preliminary investigating officer shall not be below the rank 
of accused officer. COO will appoint the preliminary investigation officer in all cases where the accused officer is below his/her 
rank.
The list provided in indicative and other provisions may be added as and when necessary.
Such preliminary investigation can either take the form of asking witnesses to furnish their own written statements or of a person in 
authority recording their statements and having them signed by witnesses in question.
On receipt of preliminary investigation report, if the COO is of the opinion that prima facie evidence exists against the employee 
and that is sufficiently serious to warrant dismissal, then s/he may be asked to proceed on leave without pay.
If a prima-face case against the staff is disclosed in such a preliminary investigation he or she will be issued a charge sheet. The 
accused officer is expected to reply to the charge sheet within a stipulated period (between one to two weeks). If s/he fails to submit 
an explanation to the charge sheet within that period, it will be deemed that s/he has no explanation to offer and action will be taken 
accordingly.
In the case of employees below the rank of COO, disciplinary authority shall be the COO. Officers who may be delegated to 
exercise disciplinary power under this disciplinary procedure are described in
Appendix 7 Sequence of actions for conducting a disciplinary process is given below.
61

--- PAGE 62 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
The disciplinary order made by the Disciplinary Authority should contain
a) Whether the officer is guilty of each charge and
b) Punishments imposed in respect of charges of which the accused officer is found guilty.
All acts of misconduct or lapses by employees should be brought to the notice of the relevant authority as soon as possible by the 
officer holding supervisory or administrative authority over the employee or officer concerned.
Failure to report such instances by officers holding supervisory or administrative authority also amounts to misconduct calling for 
disciplinary action against the staff holding supervisory and/or administrative authority over the concerned staff.
62

--- PAGE 63 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
12 COMMUNICATION
12.1 Disclosure of Information
An employee of the MSRLS shall not, except in the proper course of his duties, whether of a general nature or special nature, 
divulge to any unauthorized person or body any information relating to administration, programme of work, experiment or any 
other information concerning the business or finance of MSRLS.
No employee of MSRLS shall be in possession of any minute or document circulated within the Society for any purpose other than 
those conveyed to him/her for his/her information, compliance or action.
An employee is prohibited from making use of any unpublished or confidential information made known to him in the normal 
course of his work within the Society for any purpose other than his normal duties.
An employee shall obtain prior approval from the COO in writing for any publication of any book or article or any other work, 
subject matter of which is connected to the official functions of the Society
An employee shall not release any information to media and /or be involved in any interview with media without explicit approval 
of the COO of the Society.
12.2 Relationship with outside organizations
An employee shall not engage in any outside occupation which is likely to affect the proper discharge of his duties as an employee 
of the Society.
No employee may be actively associated with the management of, or hold a financial interest in any business concern, if it were 
possible for him to benefit from such association or financial interest by reason of his employment in the Society. However, an 
employee is not debarred from holding shares in a public company unless such holding amounts to controlling interest of such 
company.
An employee shall not accept any favour or a gift for any services rendered by him on behalf of the Society without explicit 
approval of the COO.
12.3 Channel of Communication
Reports or any submissions to the senior management or to outside parties for official business should be made through the 
immediate supervisory officer unless explicit approval has been obtained from the COO to deviate from the normal channel.
Correspondence must follow the norms and standards as laid down.
63

--- PAGE 64 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
12.3.1 Letters
received must be marked when received with a date and time stamp by the reception.
Official letters/communication from MSRLS may be done by the COO or the nominated officers only. If any 
other member of staff needs to issue a letter/fax, the relevant officer should initial these communiques on the 
office copy, before it is sent out. A minimum of one copy needs to be kept in the Office File. As far as possible 
standard paper, fonts, colour etc should be used for all external communication.
iii) Signatory -  All letters must be approved / signed by the relevant Authorized personnel.
12.3.2 Faxes
i) All faxes should be replied (if warranted) within 24 hours of receipt.
ii) Outgoing faxes should be filed in the relevant project file together with the Sending Receipt.
❖  All faxes must be sent with a Fax Cover as given in standard fax cover sheet.
❖  If the Fax is short or informal, you may write the message on the Cover Sheet itself.
❖  Once a fax is sent, a delivery notice must be attached to the original Fax (or copy if the original is sent by post) 
and then filed in a project folder
❖  All faxes must include the disclaimer notice
i) All letters 
ii)
12.3.3 E-mail
i) All e-mails should be acknowledged within the course of the business day, if received within normal business hours. If e­
mail is received after working hours, this is deemed to have been received the next working day.
ii) Staffs are requested to use the Auto reply function when out of the office for a length of time that would prevent 
adherence to the policy (i.e. training days, leave etc). Alternatively, staff should allow access to their inboxes to other staff 
member for review and supervision.
ii) All important e-mails (e.g those which announce change in rules/ policies, grant/seek approval or authorizes action in 
anyway), should be printed and filed.
iii) Signature must be added in the format as given in standard e mail signatory
iv) All e-mails must include the standard disclaimer notice
64

--- PAGE 65 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
13 PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT & ACCOUNTABILITY OF STAFF
All employees at MSRLS shall live up to the highest standards of conduct, accountability, and performance. The following are
guiding principles by which all staff of MSRLS shall adhere to.
13.1 S/he will behave in a disciplined manner in all our interactions with colleagues and outsiders.
We will operate on basis of trust and mutual respect.
13.2 S/he will not indulge in any activities prejudicial to the interests and reputation of the Society.
We will abide by all the Society rules and regulations.
13.3 S/he will show respect to the dignity of all our colleagues, particularly women, minorities, 
differently abled and other marginalized groups. We will not use authority to undermine a 
colleague’s sense of pride or dignity.
13.4 S/he will show due frugality in the matter of use of all resources (funds and assets) at our 
disposal. We pledge that dereliction in rendering accounts will be treated as a serious breach of 
professional misconduct.
13.5 S/he will not have commercial dealings of MSRLS with parties in whom we, our friends or 
colleagues have a direct financial interest or connection, or indulge in any dishonesty with its 
funds and works, or act in a way which will procure undue enrichment for us or others.
13.6 S/he will not engage in outside employment or reveal any confidential information relating to 
MSRLS work to any outsider, nor defame MSRLS or a colleague.
13.7 S/he will not smoke in the work place in the interests of the good health and working comfort 
of all our colleagues and visitors.
13.8 S/he will not indulge in substance abuse, or the excessive use of alcohol or drugs.
13.9 S/he will endeavour to behave in a manner befitting MSRLS , its values and mission.
13.10 In the event that s/he does not observe the code of conduct, in its full meaning, or indulge in 
unacceptable standards of work, action of behaviour, s/he will render themselves liable to 
disciplinary action.
65

--- PAGE 66 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Annexure1a
Staff Contract Format for MSRLS 
AGREEMENT OF CONTRACT APPOINTMENT
This agreement is made o n ........., BETWEEN ...............Meghalaya State Rural Livelihoods Society (herein referred to as
Society),.................................................(address)
AND
Ms/ Mr.................................................. (herein referred to as employee), aged about.................... and residing at
..........................................(address)
WHEREAS
MSRLS has selected Mr/Ms ..............................her/his services through an approved selection process by Executive Committee
of MSRLS
NOW THEREFORE THE PARTIES HEREBY AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
1  The Society hereby engages the employee to render his/her services, as ................................. (name of position) as
entrusted by its CEO, or any other officer authorized by the COO from time to time.
2 The employee would be assigned for the Meghalaya State Rural Livelihoods Society being implemented by the Society. In 
the event of the project being transferred to any other Society or the Project at a later date, the services of the employee would be 
transferred to the said Society or the Project.
3 The appointment of the employee has been made on a clear understanding that s/he has supplied all necessary information 
to enable the Society to judge his/her fitness for the job and that the information provided by the employee is true to the best of 
his/her knowledge and belief. Should it be found later that the employee has given wrong/ insufficient information or 
misrepresented the facts; the services of the employee would be terminated immediately.
4 The employee would report t o .................................(name of Reporting Officer with Designation)
5 The Employee will be on probation initially for three months. The period of probation can be extended for a further period 
of three months at the sole discretion of Society. During the probation period, services of the employee can be terminated without 
any notice period.
6 The position offered to the employee is on contract extending not more than three years from .............(the date of signing
this agreement) to.................................. The Society might rescind the contract if the performance of the employee is found
unsatisfactory.
66

--- PAGE 67 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
MSRLS Human Resource Manual - Annexures
1  This appointment can be terminated by the Society by giving the employee one month’s notice in writing or payment of 
one month’s remuneration in lieu thereof. The employee may also terminate this appointment by giving one month’s notice to the 
Society in writing or payment of one month’s remuneration in lieu thereof. The Society may also terminate this agreement in the 
event of 7 days or more continuous absence from duty.
2 That the Society, during the continuance of the service of the employee would pay as remuneration a sum of Rs 
 Per annum. The break up is as follows
3 The employee would be entitled to an increment of 5% on total remuneration after completed every year of service in the 
Society. This increment could be revised by the Executive Committee of the Society.
4 Apart from the sum mentioned in Clause 8, the employee would be entitled TA/DA allowances as per the Society Rules 
and Guidelines of the Society.
5 The employee will not be entitled to get his/her salary if s/he willfully neglects or refuses or from other cause be unable to 
perform any of the duties under this agreement. The Society may suspend employee’s salary with giving sufficient reason during 
such neglect, negligence or inability as aforesaid and may further terminate engagement.
6 The employee would be entitled to a total of 36 days of leave, in addition to one day weekly off on Sundays for one year of 
completed service or on a pro-rata basis. The break up the leave is as follows:
1 Monthly Pay
i. Base Pay
ii. PF
iii. HRA
iv. Project Allowances
2 Annual Performance Pay (0-15%)
12.1. Casual Leave: 12 days per annum
12.2. Earned Leave :  24 days per annum
The employee would also be entitled to National Holidays, and other festival holidays as per provision made by Government of 
Meghalaya.
1  The employee would not be entitled to any other benefits except those mentioned above, and others, if any, as per HR 
Policy of the Society.
2 The employee will have to provide the fidelity Guarantee Insurance Policy of an assured sum of Rs. 20,000/- from a 
reputed Insurance firm or company for employee’s good conduct and for his/her due performance as per this agreement.
67

--- PAGE 68 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
The employee will have to execute this within 45 days of joining.
3 The employee could be transferred to any of the Project Districts of the Society as and when necessary keeping in view the 
nature of work assigned and in the best interests of the Society.
4 Apart from work in office, the employee can be called upon to perform field duties as and when required by the Society.
5 The employee would not be allowed to take up any part time/ full time employment or assignments elsewhere or do any 
business during the period of the contract with the Society. If the employee engages herself/himself in such employment, 
this contract will be automatically terminated.
6 While in contract with the Society or at any time thereafter, the employee shall not divulge any information or knowledge 
gained and acquired by her/him during the period of contract which could be detrimental to the interests of the Society.
7 The title rights, copyrights and all other rights of whomsoever nature in any material produced by the Society under the 
period of this contract shall be vested exclusively in the Society, unless otherwise vested in Government by virtue of 
project document etc.
8 During the period of contract, the employee shall not stand for election as Member of a Legislative Assembly, Member of 
District Council, Member of a Municipal Committee, Municipal Corporation, District Board, Panchayat or any other 
legislative body.
9 The employee would conduct herself/himself at all times with full regard for the purposes and principles of the Society and 
in a manner befitting her/his relationship with the Society under the contract. The employee will avoid any action and in 
particular any kind of public announcement which may adversely reflect on that relationship, or on integrity, independence 
and impartiality which are required by the relationship. The employee will not accept any favour, gift or remuneration from 
any source external to the Society without first obtaining its approval.
10 Notwithstanding anything contained herein before, rules, regulations, bye-laws, instructions, lawful orders, etc. as and 
when framed and issued by Society relating to the conditions of the service and additions, amendments, modifications, 
alterations, etc made in the said conditions of service from time to time shall apply to the employee irrespective of whether 
these matters are provided for herein or not.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this contract to be signed in their respective names as of the day and year 
first above written.
For ....MSRLS Signature of the Staff
(Authorized Representative)
Witnesses:
1. 2.
68

--- PAGE 69 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Annexure1b
Staff Contract Format for MSRLS 
AGREEMENT OF CONTRACT APPOINTMENT
This agreement is made o n ........., BETW EEN ...............Meghalaya State Rural Livelihoods Society (herein referred to as
Society),.................................................(address)
AND
Ms/ Mr.................................................. (herein referred to as employee), aged about.................... and residing at
..........................................(address)
WHEREAS
MSRLS has selected Mr/Ms ..............................her/his services through an approved selection process by Executive Committee
of MSRLS
NOW THEREFORE THE PARTIES HEREBY AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
1  The Society hereby engages the employee to render his/her services, as ................................. (name of position) as
entrusted by its COO, or any other officer authorized by the COO from time to time.
2 The employee would be assigned for the Meghalaya State Rural Livelihoods Projects being implemented by the Society. In 
the event of the project being transferred to any other Society or the Project at a later date, the services of the employee would be 
transferred to the said Society or the Project.
3 In case the services of the employee are required for a Community Organisation in future, his/her services may be
1
transferred to such organization. In that case, the existing contract with the Society would be concluded .
4 The appointment of the employee has been made on a clear understanding that s/he has supplied all necessary information 
to enable the Society to judge his/her fitness for the job and that the information provided by the employee is true to the best of 
his/her knowledge and belief. Should it be found later that the employee has given wrong/ insufficient information or 
misrepresented the facts, the services of the employee would be terminated immediately.
5 The employee would report t o .................................(name of Reporting Officer with Designation)
69

--- PAGE 70 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Only in case of Community Coordinators
i
1  The Employee will be on probation initially for three months. The period of probation can be extended for a further period 
of three months at the sole discretion of Society. During the probation period, services of the employee can be terminated without 
any notice period.
2 The position offered to the employee is on contract extending not more than three years from .............(the date of signing
this agreement) to.................................. The Society might rescind the contract if the performance of the employee is found
unsatisfactory.
3 This appointment can be terminated by the Society by giving the employee one month’s notice in writing or payment of 
one month’s remuneration in lieu thereof. The employee may also terminate this appointment by giving one month’s notice to the 
Society in writing or payment of one month’s remuneration in lieu thereof. The Society may also terminate this agreement in the 
event of 7 days or more continuous absence from duty.
4 That the Society, during the continuance of the service of the employee would pay as remuneration a sum of Rs
............................per annum to the employee. In addition to that the Society would make contribution in provident fund for the
employee.
5 The employee would be entitled to an increment of 5 % on total remuneration after completed every year of service in the 
Society. This increment could be revised by the Executive Committee of the Society.
6 Apart from the sum mentioned in Clause 8, the employee would be entitled TA/DA allowances as per the Society Rules 
and Guidelines of the Society.
7 The employee will not be entitled to get his/her salary if s/he willfully neglects or refuses or from other cause be unable to 
perform any of the duties under this agreement. The Society may suspend employee’s salary with giving sufficient reason during 
such neglect, negligence or inability as aforesaid and may further terminate engagement.
8 The employee would be entitled to a total of 36 days of leave, in addition to one day weekly off on Sundays for one year of 
completed service or on a pro-rata basis. The break up the leave is as follows:
13.1. Casual Leave: 12 days per annum
13.2. Earned Leave :  24 days per annum
The employee would also be entitled to National Holidays, and other festival holidays as per provision made by Government of 
Meghalaya.
1  The employee would not be entitled to any other benefits except those mentioned above, and others, if any, as per HR Policy of 
the Society.
2 The employee will have to provide the fidelity Guarantee Insurance Policy of an assured sum of Rs. 20,000/- from a reputed 
Insurance firm or company for employee’s good conduct and for his/her due performance as per this agreement. The employee 
will have to execute this within 45 days of joining.
70

--- PAGE 71 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
3 The employee could be transferred to any of the Project Districts of the Society as and when necessary keeping in view the 
nature of work assigned and in the best interests of the Society.
4 Apart from work in office, the employee can be called upon to perform field duties as and when required by the Society.
5 The employee would not be allowed to take up any part time/ full time employment or assignments elsewhere or do any 
business during the period of the contract with the Society. If the employee engages herself/himself in such employment, this 
contract will automatically terminated.
6 While in contract with the Society or at any time thereafter, the employee shall not divulge any information or knowledge 
gained and acquired by her/him during the period of contract which could be detrimental to the interests of the Society.
7 The title rights, copyrights and all other rights of whomsoever nature in any material produced by the Society under the period 
of this contract shall be vested exclusively in the Society, unless otherwise vested in Government by virtue of project 
document etc.
8 During the period of contract, the employee shall not stand for election as Member of a Municipal Committee, Municipal 
Corporation, District Board, Panchayat or any other legislative body.
9 The employee would conduct herself/himself at all times with full regard for the purposes and principles of the Society and in a 
manner befitting her/his relationship with the Society under the contract. The employee will avoid any action and in particular 
any kind of public announcement which may adversely reflect on that relationship, or on integrity, independence and 
impartiality which are required by the relationship. The employee will not accept any favour, gift or remuneration from any 
source external to the Society without first obtaining its approval.
10 Notwithstanding anything contained herein before, rules, regulations, bye-laws, instructions, lawful orders, etc. as and when framed 
and issued by Society relating to the conditions of the service and additions, amendments, modifications, alterations, etc made in the 
said conditions of service from time to time shall apply to the employee irrespective of whether these matters are provided for herein 
or not.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this contract to be signed in their respective names as of the day and year 
first above written
For ....MSRLS Signature of the Staff
(Authorized Representative)
Witnesses:
1. 2.
71

--- PAGE 72 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
Annexure 2
Guiding Questions for Exit Interview
Why have you decided to leave the MSRLS?
Was a single event responsible for your decision to leave?
Have you shared your concerns with anyone in the MSRLS prior to deciding to leave?
What does your new offer that encouraged you to accept their offer and leave MSRLS?
What did you like most about your job?
What did you dislike about your job? What would you change about your job?
Did you have clear goals and know what was expected of you in your job?
Were your job responsibilities characterized correctly during the orientation?
Do you feel you had the resources and support necessary to accomplish your job? If not, what was missing?
Did you receive adequate feedback about your performance day-to-day and in the performance development 
planning process?
The quality of supervision is important to most people at work. How was your relationship with your reporting 
officer?
What could your supervisor do to improve his or her management style and skill?
What are your views about management and leadership, in general, in the MSRLS?
Did you clearly understand and feel a part of the accomplishment of the MSRLS mission and goals?
What do you value about the MSRLS?
What did you dislike about the MSRLS?
We try to be an employee-oriented MSRLS in which employees experience positive morale and motivation. What 
is your experience of employee morale and motivation in the MSRLS?
Did the management of the MSRLS care about and help you accomplish your personal and professional 
development and career goals?
What would you recommend to help us create a better workplace?
Do the policies and procedures of the MSRLS help to create a well-managed, consistent, and fair workplace in 
which expectations are clearly defined?
What are the key qualities and skills we should seek in your replacement?
Do you have any recommendations regarding our compensation, benefits and other reward and recognition 
efforts?
What would make you consider working for this MSRLS again in the future? Would you recommend the MSRLS 
as a good place to work to your friends and family?
Can you offer any other comments that will enable us to understand why you are leaving, how we can improve, 
and what we can do to become a better Organisation?
If we could change some things to get you back, what would they be?
72

--- PAGE 73 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Salary Details for Meghalaya AJEEViKA Project Staff : Annexure 3
MONTHLY PAY Transport allowance (for commuting from home  
to office).
Name of Position
Basic
Project Allowance Other Benefits
HRA
Communication
Allowance
Medical Allowence
Transport Allowance
Employer's 
PF Contribution
Gross Monthly 
Salary(excluding CEA)
Child
EducationAllowance 
(upto 2 children)
Mediclaim and GA 
Insurance
Remarks and range of proposed salary
1 2 3 4 5 6 8 9 10 11 12
State Level 20%
13.61
%
COO Provision as per deputation norms
Dy.COO Provision as per deputation norms
Finance Account Officer
Slab 1 : Starting from minimum 10 years of experience
27,750 5,550 1,500 1,500 1,000 3,777 41,077 500*2
Applic 
able as 
per 
HR 
Norms
Gross salary proposed 41000-45000. The entry level slab to 
be fixed according to qualification, relevant experience and 
negotiation with newly selected candidate. For staff already 
employed, salary will be fixed according to total years of 
service contributed in MSRLS irrespective of his/her entry 
level slab fixed earlier.
73

--- PAGE 74 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Slab 2: After completion of 2 years of service in MSRLS ii 
entry level salary is fixed under slab 1 (For new staff joining 
after 1st June 2012)/ from 2 and above years of total service 
with MSRLS (For staff currently working and had joined 
before 1st June 2012.)
31,000
6,200 1,500 1,500 1,000 4,219 45,419 500*2
State Project Manager
Slab 1 : Starting from minimum 7 years of experience (For 
new staff joining after 1st June 2012)/ from joining and upto 2 
years of total service with MSRLS (for staff currntly working 
and had joined before 1st June 2012)
24,000 4,800 1,500 1,500 1,000 3,266 36,066 500*2
Applic 
able as 
per 
HR 
Norms
Gross salary proposed 36000-45000. The entry level slab to 
be fixed according to qualification, relevant experience and 
negotiation with newly selected candidate. For staff already 
employed, salary will be fixed according to total years of 
service contributed in MSRLS irrespective of their entry 
level slab fixed earlier.
Slab 2: After completion of 2 years of service in MSRLS ii 
entry level salary is fixed under slab 1 (For new staff joining 
after 1st June 2012)/ from 2 years and upto 4 years of total 
service with MSRLS (For staff currently working and had 
joined before 1st June 2012.)
27,500
5,500 1,500 1,500 1,000 3,743 40,743 500*2
Slab 3 : After completion of 4 years in MSRLS if entry level 
salary is fixed under 1st slab or after completion of 2 years in 
MSRLS if entry level salary is fixed under slab 2 (For new 
staff joining after 1st June 2012)/from 4 and above years oi 
total service with MSRLS (For staff currently working and 
had joined before 1st June 2012.)
31,000
6,200 1,500 1,500 1,000 4,219 45,419 500*2
74

--- PAGE 75 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Salary Details for Meghalaya JEEViKA Project Staff : Annexure 3
MONTHLY PAY
Transport allowance (for 
commuting from home to 
office).
Name of Position
Project Allowance Other Benefits
Basic
HRA
Communication
Allowance
Medical Allowence
Transport Allowance
Employer's PF 
Contribution
Gross 
Monthly 
Salary(excl 
uding CEA)
Child
EducationAllowance 
(upto 2 children)
Mediclaim and GA 
Insurance
Remarks and range of 
proposed salary
1 2 3 4 5 6 8 9 10 11 12
Procurement Officer
Slab 1  :  Starting from minimum 4 years of experience (For new staff 
joining after 1st June 09)/ from joining and upto 2 years of total 
service with MSRLS (For staff currently working and had joined 
before 1st June 2012)
14,250 2,850 1,500 1,500 1,000 1,939 23,039 500*2
Applicable 
as per HR 
Norms
Gross salary proposed 23000­
29000. The entry level slab to be 
fixed according to qualification, 
relevant experience and 
negotiation with newly selected 
candidate. For staff already 
employed, salary will be fixed 
according to total years of 
service contributed in MSRLS 
irrespective of their entry level 
slab fixed earlier.
Slab 2: After completion of 2 years of service in MSRLS if entry 
level salary is fixed under slab 1  (For new staff joining after 1st June 
2012)/ from 2 years and upto 4 years of total service with MSRLS 
(For staff currently working and had joined before 1st June 2012.) 16,500 3,300 1,500 1,500 1,000 2,246 26,046 500*2
75

--- PAGE 76 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Slab 3 :  After completion of 4 years in M S R L S  if entry level salary 
is fixed under 1st slab or after completion of 2 years in M S R L S  if 
entry level salary is fixed under slab 2 (For new staff joining after 1st 
June 2012) /from 4 and above years of total service with M S R L S  
(For staff currently working and had joined before 1st June 2012.)
19,000 3,800 1,500 1,500 1,000 2,586 29,386 500*2
Accountant
Entry slab :  For first 6 months period till training on talley completed
10,000 2,000 300 500 300 1,361 14,461
200*2
Applicable 
as per HR 
Norms
Gross salary range proposed Rs. 
14000-20000. For existing staff, 
total length of service with 
M S R L S  will be considerd for 
salary fixation once they all 
passed the required talley test. If 
the existing salary is higher than 
the slab in which staff falls, the 
same basic pay will be 
applicable till s/he become 
eligible for next slab
1st slab (after completion of talley training to 2 years of working 
with M S R L S  as the position) 11,000 2,200 300 500 300 1,497 15,797 200*2
2nd slab (after completing the required period as perescribed in 1st 
slab to 4 years of working with M S R L S  as the position) 12,500 2,500 300 500 300 1,701 17,801 200*2
3rd slab (after completing the required period as prescribed under 
2nd slab and above) 14,250 2,850 300 500 300 1,939 20,139
200*2
Note the next slab followed by the train in g period w ill be fixed after completion of six months, becoming trained on computerised accounting using talley and passing a test conducted in this regard.
76

--- PAGE 77 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Salary Details fo r M eghalaya A J E E V IK A  Project Sta ff : Annexure 3
M O N T H L Y  P A Y Transport allowance (for commuting from home to 
office).
Name of Position
Project Allowance Other Benefits
Basic
H R A
Communication Allowance
Medical Allowence
Transport Allowance
Employer's PF Contribution
Gross
M onthly
Salary(e
xcluding
C E A )
C h ild  
Education 
Allow ance 
(upto 2 
children)
M ediclaim  
and G A  
Insurance
Rem arks and range of proposed salary
1 2 3 4 5 6 8 9 10 11 12
Office Assistant
1st slab (upto 2 years of working with M S R L S  as the 
position)
9,500 1,900 750 750 500 1292 14,693 200*2
Applicable 
as per HR 
Norms
Gross salary range proposed Rs. 14000-18000. For 
existing staff, total length of service with MSRLS will 
be considerd for salary fixation once they all passed 
the required talley test. If the existing salary is higher 
than the slab in which staff falls, the same basic pay 
will be applicable till s/he become eligible for next 
slab.
2nd slab (for more than 2 and upto 4 years of working with 
M S R L S  as the position)
10,900 2,180 750 750 500 1483 16,563 200*2
3rd slab (for more than 4 years of working with MSRLS as 
the position)
12,500 2,500 750 750 500 1701 18,701 200*2
C ashier
Entry slab :  For first 6 months period till training on talley 
completed
9,500 1,900 750 750 500 1292 14,693 200*2
Applicable 
as per HR 
Norms
Gross salary range proposed Rs. 14000-20000. For 
existing staff, total length of service with MSRLS will 
be considerd for salary fixation once they all passed 
the required talley test. If the existing salary is higher 
than the slab in which staff falls, the same basic pay
77

--- PAGE 78 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
will be applicable till s/he become eligible for next 
slab
1st slab (after completion of talley training to 2 years of 
working with M S R L S  as the position)
10,750 2,150 750 750 500 1463 16,363 200*2
2nd slab (after completing the required period as perescribed 
in 1st slab to 4 years of working with M S R L S  as the position)
12,000 2,400 750 750 500 1633 18,033 200*2
3rd slab (after completing the required period as prescribed 
under 2nd slab and above)
13,500 2,700 750 750 500 1837 20,037 200*2
Note the next slab followed by the train in g period w ill be fixed after completion of six months, becoming trained on computerised accounting using talley and passing a test conducted in this regard.
P A  cum Steno
1st slab (upto 2 years of working with M S R L S  as the 
position)
10,500 2,100 750 750 500 1429 16,029 200*2
Applicable 
as per HR 
Norms
Gross salary range proposed Rs. 16000-19000. For 
existing staff, total length of service with M S R L S  
will be considerd for salary fixation once they all 
passed the required talley test. If the existing salary is 
higher than the slab in which staff falls, the same 
basic pay will be applicable till s/he become eligible 
for next slab.
2nd slab (for more than 2 and upto 4 years of working with 
M S R L S  as the position)
11,400 2,280 750 750 500 1551 17,232 200*2
3rd slab (for more than 4 years of working with MSRLS as 
the position)
13,000 2,600 750 750 500 1769 19,369 200*2
78

--- PAGE 79 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Salary Details fo r M eghalaya A J E E V IK A  Project Sta ff : Annexure 3
M O N T H L Y  P A Y
Transport allowance (for 
commuting from home to office).
Name of Position
Project Allowance Other Benefits
Employer's G ross M onthly
Basic H R A
Communication
Allowance
Medical
Allowence
Transport
Allowance
PF
Contribution
Salary(excluding
C E A )
C h ild
EducationAllow ance 
(upto 2 children)
M ediclaim  
and G A  
Insurance
Rem arks and range of proposed 
salary
1 2 3 4 5 6 8 9 0 11 12
System A nalyst
Slab 1  :  Experience starting from 3 years 
and less than 5 years
13,500 2,700 1,000 1,000 750 1837 20,787 300*2
Applicable 
as per HR 
Norms
Gross salary range proposed Rs. 
20000-26000. For existing staff, 
total length of service with 
MSRLS will be considerd for 
salary fixation. If the existing 
salary is higher than the slab in 
which staff falls, the same basic 
pay will be applicable till s/he 
become eligible for next slab
Slab 2 :  Experience from 5 to 8 years 15,250 3,050 1,000 1,000 750 2075 23,126 300*2
Slab 3  :  Experience 8 years and above 17,500 3,500 1,000 1,000 750 2381 26,132 300*2
-
79

--- PAGE 80 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Data A dm in istrator
Slab 1  :  Experience starting from 2 years 
and less than 4 years
11,000 2,200 750 750 500 1497 16,697
Applicable 
as per HR 
Norms
Gross salary range proposed Rs. 
16000-20000. For existing staff, 
total length of service with 
MSRLS will be considerd for 
salary fixation. If the existing 
salary is higher than the slab in 
which staff falls, the same basic 
pay will be applicable till s/he 
become eligible for next slab
Slab 2 :  Experience from 4 to 6 years 12,500 2,500 750 750 500 1701 18,701
Slab 3: Expereince from 6 years and 
above
14,000 2,800 750 750 500 1905 20,705
D T P  operator cum Designer
Slab 1  :  Experienced starting from 
2years and less than 4 years
9,500 1,900 500 500 300 1292 13,993
Applicable 
as per HR 
Norms
Gross salary range proposed Rs. 
13000-17000. For existing staff, 
total length of service with 
MSRLS will be considerd for 
salary fixation. If the existing 
salary is higher than the slab in 
which staff falls, the same basic 
pay will be applicable till s/he 
become eligible for next slab
Slab 2 :  Experience from 4 - 6 years 10,750 2,150 500 500 300 1463 15,663
Slab 3 :  Experience from 6 years and 
above
12,250 2,450 500 500 300 1667 17,667
Com puter Operator 7,500
These services will be outsourced
D rive r 7,500
Receptionist 7,500
Office Boy 5,000
G uard 5,000
The salary strcuture proposed to be effective from  1st June 2009
80

--- PAGE 81 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Salary Details fo r M eghalaya A J E E V IK A  Project Staff : Annexure E
Transport allowance (for commuting from home to 
office).
M O N T H L Y  P A Y O ther Benefits
Project Allow ance Rem arks and range of proposed salary
Name of Position
Basic
H R A
Communication Allowance
Medical Allowence
Transport Allowance
Employer's PF Contribution
G ross M onthly 
Salary(excluding C E A )
C h ild  EducationAllow ance 
(upto 2 children)
M ediclaim
andG A
Insurance
1 2 3 4 5 6 8 9 10 11 12
D istrict Level Staff 15% 13.61%
D istrict Project M anager
Slab 1  :  Starting from minimum 5 years of 
experience 20,700 3,105 1,000 1,000 750 2817 29,372
500*2
Applicable
Gross salary proposed 29000-41000. The entry level 
slab to be fixed according to qualification and 
relevant experience.
Slab 2: After completion of 2 years if entry level 
salary is fixed under slab 1 . 22,800 3,420 1,000 1,000 750 3103 32,073 500*2 as per HR 
Norms
Slab 3 :  After completion of 4 years if entry level 
salary is fixed under 1st slab or after completion of 
2 years if entry level salary is fixed under slab 2 25,250 3,788 1,000 1,000 750 3436 35,224
500*2
81

--- PAGE 82 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Slab 4 : After completion of 4 years if  entry level 
salary is fixed under slab 2 or after completion of 2 
years if  entry level salary is fixed under slab 3. 23,600 3,540 1,000 1,000 750 3211 33,102
500*2
Slab 5 : After completion of 4 years if  entry level 
salary is fixed under slab 3 or after completion of 2 
years if  entry level salary is fixed under slab 4. 30,500 4,575 1,000 1,000 750 4151 41,976
500*2
T ra in in g  M anager
Slab 1  : Experience starting from 3 years and less 
than 5 years
16,000 2,400 1,000 1,000 750 2177 23,328 300*2 Applicable 
as per H R  
Norms
Gross salary proposed 23000-27000Slab 2: Experience from 5 - 7 years 17,750 2,663 1,000 1,000 750 2415 25,578 300*2
Slab 3 : Experience 7 years above 19,500 2,925 1,000 1,000 750 2653 27,829 300*2
T ra in in g  O fficer
Slab 1  : Fresher and upto experience of 2 years 15,000 2,250 750 750 500 2042 21,292 300*2
Applicable 
as per H R  
Norms
Gross salary proposed 21000-25000Slab 2 : Experience from 2 years to 4 years 16,500 2,475 750 750 500 2246 23,221 300*2
Slab 3 : Expereince 4 years above 18,200 2,730 750 750 500 2477 25,407 300*2
82

--- PAGE 83 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Salary Details fo r M eghalaya A J E E V IK A  Project Staff : Annexure F2
M O N T H L Y  P A Y Transport allowance (for commuting from 
home to office).Project Allow ance O ther Benefits
Name of Position
Basic
H R A
Communication
Allowance
Medical Allowence
TransportAllowanc
e
Employer's
PFContribution
G ross M onthly 
Salary(excluding 
C E A )
C h ild  Education 
Allow ance (upto2 
children)
M ediclaim
andG A
Insurance
Rem arks and range of proposed salary
1 2 3 4 5 6 8 9 10 11 12
D istrict Level Staff 15% 13.61%
M anager - Livelihoods
Slab 1  :  Experience starting from 2 years 
and less than 5 years
14,250 2,138 1,500 1,500 1,000 1,939 22,327 300*2
Applicable as per 
HR Norms
.  Gross salary proposed 22000-28000
Slab 2 :  Experience from 5 - 7 years 16,500 2,475 1,500 1,500 1,000 2,246 25,221 300*2
Slab 3  :  Experience 7 years above 19,000 2,850 1,500 1,500 1,000 2,586 28,436 300*2
M anager - M icrofinance
Slab 1  :  Experience starting from 2 years 
and less than 5 years
14,250 2,138 1,500 1,500 1,000 1,939 23,039 300*2
Applicable as per 
HR Norms
Gross salary proposed 22000-28000Slab 2 :  Experience from 5 - 7 years 16,500 2,475 1,500 1,500 1,000 2,246 26,046 300*2
Slab 3  :  Experience 7 years above 19,000 2,850 1,500 1,500 1,000 2,586 29,386 300*2
83

--- PAGE 84 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
M anager - Social Development
Slab 1  :  Experience starting from 2 years 
and less than 5 years
14,250 2,138 1,500 1,500 1,000 1,939 22,327 300*2
Applicable as per 
HR Norms
Gross salary proposed 22000-28000Slab 2 :  Experience from 5 - 7 years 16,500 2,475 1,500 1,500 1,000 2,246 25,221 300*2
Slab 3  :  Experience 7 years above 19,000 2,850 1,500 1,500 1,000 2,586 28,436 300*2
Finance cum adm in M anager
Slab 1  :  Experience starting from 3 years 
and less than 5 years 20,700 3,105 1,000 1,000 750 2817 29,372 300*2
Applicable as per 
HR Norms Gross salary proposed 29000-41000
Slab 2 :  Experience from 5 - 7 years 22,800 3,420 1,000 1,000 750 3103 32,073 300*2
Slab 3  :  Experience 7 years above 25,250 3,788 1,000 1,000 750 3436 35,224 300*2
Slab 5 :  After completion of 4 years if 
entry level salary is fixed under slab 3 or 
after completion of 2 years if entry level 
salary is fixed under slab 4.
30,500 4,575 1,000 1,000 750 4151 41,976 300*2
Accountant
For first 6 months period till training on 
talley completed 10,000 1,500 750 500 500 1361 14,611 200*2
Gross salary proposed 14000-20000
1st slab (after completion of talley 
training to 2 years of working with 
MSRLS as the position) 11,000 1,650 750 500 500 1497 15,897
200*2
Applicable as pe 
HR Norms
2nd slab (after completing the required 12,500 1,875 750 500 500 1701 17,826 200*2
84

--- PAGE 85 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
period as perescribed in  slab 1  to 4 years 
of working with M S R L S  as the position)
3rd slab (after completing the required 
period as prescribed under slab 2) 14,250 2,138 750 500 500 1939 20,077 200*2
Office Assistant
1st slab (upto 2 years of working with 
M S R L S  as the position) 9,500 1,425 750 750 500 1292 14,218 200*2
Applicable as per 
H R  Norms
Gross salary proposed 14000-18000
2nd slab (for more than 2 and upto 4 
years of working with M S R L S  as the 
position) 10,900 1,635 750 750 500 1483 16,018
200*2
3rd slab (for more than 4 years of 
working with M S R L S  as the position) 12,500 1,875 750 750 500 1701 18,076 200*2
85

--- PAGE 86 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Sa lary Details fo r M eghalaya A J E E V IK A  Project Sta ff : Annexure B2
M O N T H L Y  P A Y
Transport allowance (for 
commuting from home to 
office).
O ther Benefits
Name of Position Basic
Project Allow ance
H R A
Communication
Allowance
Medical Allowence
TransportAllowance
Employer'
s
PFContrib
ution
Gross 
M onthl 
y Salary 
(excludi 
n g
C E A )
C h ild
Ed u catio n A ll 
owance 
(upto2 ch ild r 
en)
M ediclaim
andG A
Insurance
Rem arks and range of 
proposed salary
1 2 3 4 5 6 8 9 10 11 12
B lo ck Le vel Staff 15% 13.61%
B lo ck Project M anager
Slab 1  :  Fresher and upto experience of 2 years 16,750 2,513 1,000 750 500 2,280 23,792 300*2
Applicable 
as per HR 
Norms
Gross salary proposed 
23000-29000Slab 2 :  Experience from 2 to 5 years 18,500 2,775 1,000 750 500 2,518 26,043 300*2
Slab 3  :  Experience 5 years and above 21,000 3,150 1,000 750 500 2,858 29,258 300*2
A rea Coordinator
1st slab (upto 2 years of working with MSRLS as the position) 14,250 2,138 1,500 1,500 1,000 1,939 22,327 200*2 Applicable 
as per HR 
Norms
Gross salary proposed 22000­
280002nd slab (after completing the required period as prescribed under slab 1  
to 4 years with MSRLS as the position)
16,500 2,475 1,500 1,500 1,000 2,246 25,221 200*2
3rd slab (after completing the required period as prescribed under slab 2 
to 6 years with MSRLS as the position)
19,000 2,850 1,500 1,500 1,000 2,586 28,436 200*2
86

--- PAGE 87 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Accountant
For first 6 months period till training on talley completed 10,000 1,500 750 500 500 1361 14,611 200*2
1st slab (after completion of talley training to 2 years of working with 
MSRLS as the position) 11,000 1,650 750 500 500 1497 15,897
200*2
Applicable 
as per HR 
Norms
salary proposed 14000-19000
2nd slab (after completing the required period as perescribed in slab 1  to 
4 years of working with MSRLS as the position) 12,500 1,875 750 500 500 1701 17,826 200*2
3rd slab (after completing the required period as prescribed under slab 2) 14,250 2,138 750 500 500 1939 20,077 200*2
87

--- PAGE 88 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Transport allowance (for commuting 
from home to office).
M O N T H L Y  P A Y O ther Benefits
Name of Position Basic
Project Allow ance
H R A
Communication
Allowance
Medical Allowence
TransportAllowance
Employer's
PFContribution
G ross M onthly 
Salary (excluding 
C E A )
C h ild
EducationA
llowance
(upto2
children)
M ediclaim  andG A  
Insurance
Rem arks and range of proposed 
salary
1 2 3 4 5 6 8 9 10 11 12
Note the next slab followed by the training period will be fixed after completion of six months, becoming trained on computerised accounting using talley and passing a test conducted in this regard.
Com m unity Coordinator
1st slab (upto 2 years of working with MSRLS as the 
position) 9,500 1,425 750 750 500 1292 14,218 200*2
Applicable as per 
HR Norms
Gross salary proposed 14000-18000
2nd slab (for more than 2 and upto 4 years of working 
with MSRLS as the position) 10,900 1,635 750 750 500 1483 16,018 200*2
3rd slab (for more than 4 years of working with 
MSRLS as the position) 12,500 1,875 750 750 500 1701 18,076 200*2
Office Assistant
1st slab (upto 2 years of working with MSRLS as the 
position) 9,500 1,425 750 750 500 1292 14,218 200*2
Applicable as per HR 
Norms
Gross salary proposed 14000-18000
2nd slab (for more than 2 and upto 4 years of working 
with MSRLS as the position) 10,900 1,635 750 750 500 1483 16,018 200*2
3rd slab (for more than 4 years of working with 
MSRLS as the position) 12,500 1,875 750 750 500 1701 18,076 200*2
88

--- PAGE 89 ---
Travel Claim Format
MSRLS Place of Visit: ................. ..... Month of
Name: .................................................. ........ Visit:................................ .............Year.......
Designation: ......................................... ........ Place of Posting: ............. .....Purpose of
A. Outstation Travel Details: Visit:..............................
M eahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft h r d Manual
HR Manual Annexure
S.N o
Date & 
Time
From
Departure Place
To Arrival 
place
Date & Time
Mode of 
Transport and 
Ticket Details
Total
Days
DA
Claim*
Lodging!
TA
Claim2
Others3
Total
Amount
(*+1+2+3)
Remarks if any: 
Total
89

--- PAGE 90 ---
B. Local Conveyance Details
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
S. Mode of
No
Date From To
Transport
Distance Purpose Amount Others Total
Remarks if any: 
Total
Grand Total-(In 
words)
Grand
Total
(A+B)
This is to certify that I incurred the above expenditure in course of official work and that I have not claimed it from elsewhere.
1- Lodging Bills attached Signature of Claimant..........................................................
2- Travel bill/tickets Attached
3- Others/Incidental bills attached
Tour Diary Attached
Tour Approving Authority: ..............................................Verified By: ..........................................Total amount Payable:...
90

--- PAGE 91 ---
Tour Diary Format
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Name:............................................................Designation:....................................................Tour Diary for the Month ................Year.
S.No Date Time
Place Visited Purpose
From To
91

--- PAGE 92 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Approving Authority Signature of Employee 
Annexure 5
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FOR Meghalaya AJEEVIKA STAFF
Score
Grade Score Grade
100% or >100% A 75%- 90% C
91% - 99% B <75% D
92

--- PAGE 93 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
MSRLS HR Manual - Annexure
Name of Staff
Designation
State/ District Posted SMMU -  I & CB
S No Performance Criteria Indicator Source Weight Given Target for the Year
A INDIVIDUAL KPI
A.1 Training Modules Designed and tested along with CB Agency Nos
A.2 All DMMU & BMMU staff oriented and trained as per Training Calendar %
A.3 District Resource Persons identified, oriented and on board Nos
A.4 CRP strategy finalized and rolled out
A.5 Funds available under Capacity Building utilized %
A.6 Number of District Training Coordinators and District Training Officers graded ‘A’  as per performance assessment %
Total Score for Individual KPIs
B TEAM KPI
B.1 450 new SHGs & 30 VOs Formed Nos
B.2 No. of BMMU received overall ‘A’  grade Nos
B.3 At least 95% Fund Utilization as per plan %
Total Score for Team KPIs
93

--- PAGE 94 ---
M eahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft h r d Manual
Authorized Signatory Date
Score Grade Score Grade
100% or A 75%- 90% C
>100%
91% - 99% B <75% D
94

--- PAGE 95 ---
State/ District Posted PM -  I & CB
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Name of Staff
Designation
S No Performance Criteria Indicator Source Weight Given Target for the Year
A INDIVIDUAL KPI
A.1 Training Modules and Related IEC Material developed along with CB Agency Nos
A.2 % of  Training Programmes received ‘A’  grade feedback from participants %
A.3 All the members of 300 SHG trained on Group Management & Financial management %
A.4 CRPs delivering 90% of expected outputs %
A.5 Workshop on project activities done for district govt. officials and line departments Nos
A.6 Collaborations established with NGOs in each district for nurturing SHGs Nos
Total Score for Individual KPIs
B TEAM KPI
B.1 450 new SHGs & 30 VOs Formed Nos
B.2 No. of BMMU received overall ‘A’  grade Nos
B.3 At least 95% Fund Utilization as per plan %
Total Score for Team KPIs
Authorized Signatory Date MSRLS
Score Grade Score Grade
100% or A 75%- 90% C
>100%
91% - 99% B <75% D
95

--- PAGE 96 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Name of Staff
Designation
State/ District Posted SPM - Communication
S No Performance Criteria Indicator Source Weight Given Target for the Year
A INDIVIDUAL KPI
A.1 All communication material printed, distributed to DMMUs, BMMUs, VOs and SHGs Nos
A.2 % of Project Villages completed IEC activities %
A.3 Number of Project newsletters printed and distributed across Project Nos
A.4 Release of corporate film on MSRLS
A.5 Web based Grievance Redressal mechanism established
Total Score for Individual KPIs
B TEAM KPI
B.1 450 new SHGs & 30 VOs Formed Nos
B.2 No. of BMMU received overall ‘A’  grade Nos
B.3 At least 95% Fund Utilization as per plan %
Total Score for Team KPIs
Authorized Signatory Date
Score Grade Score Grade
100% or >100% A 75%- 90% C
91% - 99% B <75% D
96

--- PAGE 97 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Name of Staff Designation State/ District Posted 
PM -Communication
S No Performance Criteria Indicator Source Weight
Given
Achieved
A INDIVIDUAL KPI
A.1 All communication material printed, distributed to DMMUs, BMMUs, VOs and SHGs Nos
A.2 % of Project Villages completed IEC activities %
A.3 At least 90% timely responses to Grievances submitted through the Web based Grievance Redressal System %
A.4 No. of articles/case studies on Jeevika published in mainstream media Nos
A.5 Number of Govt Departments at State/District Level liaised to establish AJeevika’s image. Nos
Total Score for Individual KPIs
B TEAM KPI
B.1 450 new SHGs & 30 VOs Formed Nos
B.2 No. of BMMU received overall ‘A’  grade Nos
B.3 At least 95% Fund Utilization as per plan %
Total Score for Team KPIs
Authorized Signatory Date
Score Grade Score Grade
100% or >100% A 75%- 90% C
91% - 99% B <75% D
97

--- PAGE 98 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Name of Staff
Designation
State/ District Posted SPM -  HRD
S No Performance Criteria Indicator Source Weight Given Target for the Year
A INDIVIDUAL KPI
A.1 HR Manual Designed, Approved and Implemented across all levels
A.2 % of staff left the Project during the year %
A.3 % of staff whose performance appraisals were completed within January ’08 %
A.4 Establishing all District and Block Offices Nos
A.5 % of ‘C’  & ‘D’  rated DMMU and SMMU staff for whom training needs were identified and trainings conducted %
A.6 % of staff who were rewarded as per Performance Appraisals %
Total Score for Individual KPIs
B TEAM KPI
B.1 450 new SHGs & 30 VOs Formed Nos
B.2 No. of BMMU received overall ‘A’  grade Nos
B.3 At least 95% Fund Utilization as per plan %
Total Score for Team KPIs
Authorized Signatory Date
Score Grade Score Grade
100% or A 75%- 90% C
>100%
91% - 99% B <75% D
98

--- PAGE 99 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Name of Staff
Designation
State/ District Posted PM - HRD
S No Performance Criteria Indicator Source Weight
Given
Target 
for the 
Year
A INDIVIDUAL KPI
A.1 Induction Programme of all staff completed as per Calendar
A.2 All District and Block Offices have approved infrastructure in Place
A.3 % of  ‘C’  & ‘D’  category BMMUs for which training needs were identified and training conducted
A.4 % of staff whose performance appraisals were completed within January ’08
A.5 System of periodic reporting, review and planning implemented in all District & Block teams -
Total Score for Individual KPIs
B TEAM KPI
B.1 450 new SHGs & 30 VOs Formed Nos
B.2 No. of BMMU received overall ‘A’  grade Nos
B.3 At least 95% Fund Utilization as per plan %
Total Score for Team KPIs
Authorized Signatory Date
Score Grade Score Grade
100% or >100% A 75%- 90% C
91% - 99% B <75% D
99

--- PAGE 100 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Name of Staff
Designation
State/ District Posted SPM -  Monitoring & Learning
S No Performance Criteria Indicator Source Weight Given Target for the Year
A INDIVIDUAL KPI
A.1 Designing and Preparing a format for monthly planning and review meeting.
A.2 Design and development of Rural Livelihood MIS and Project Management Application
A.3 Timely release of all four “Management Information Report at quarterly basis” with the help of MIS
A.4 Release of 1st and 2nd “Project Progress Report” (PPR)
A.5 Introduction of a System of feedback and monthly review of progress and reporting using MIS data
Total Score for Individual KPIs
B TEAM KPI
B.1 450 new SHGs & 30 VOs Formed Nos
B.2 No. of BMMU received overall ‘A’  grade Nos
B.3 At least 95% Fund Utilization as per plan %
Total Score for Team KPIs
100

--- PAGE 101 ---
Authorized Signatory
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Date
Score Grade Score Grade
100% or A 75%- 90% C
>100%
91% - 99% B <75% D
Name of Staff
Designation State/ District Posted PM -  Monitoring & Learning
S No Performance Criteria Indicator Source Weight
Given
Target for the Year
A INDIVIDUAL KPI
A.1 Introducing and institutionalizing the Monthly Planning & Review format at the BMMU and DMMU.
A.2 Piloting and implementing MIS in one block of each districts
A.4 Installing and implementing MIS systems in all 39 blocks Nos
A.5 Institutionalizing the System of feedback and monthly review of progress and reporting using MIS data
Total Score for Individual KPIs
B TEAM KPI
B.1 450 new SHGs & 30 VOs Formed Nos
B.2 No. of BMMU received overall ‘A’  grade Nos
B.3 At least 95% Fund Utilization as per plan %
Total Score for Team KPIs
101

--- PAGE 102 ---
Authorized Signatory
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Date
Score Grade Score Grade
100% or A 75%- 90% C
>100%
91% - 99% B <75% D
Name of Staff 
Designation
State/ District Posted SPM -  Livelihoods
S No Performance Criteria Indicator Source Weight
Given
Target 
for the 
Year
A INDIVIDUAL KPI
A.1 Establishing partnership and contracting agencies for providing technical assistance to SHGs Nos
A.2 Development of Service sector plan (including job sector) from Govt. of Meghalaya promoted by Tourism Department, other deptt. Nos
A.3 Development of Block level livelihoods Plan Nos
A.4 Development of micro plan in 50 villages (through micro credit plan to analyze the trend of credit requirement) -  A trend analysis of livelihoods in these 
villages
Nos
A.5 Development of 12 nos of MCP based Cluster livelihoods plans Nos
A.6 500 SHGs to linked to existing DCS Nos
A.7 Promotion of 40 Livelihoods Producer Groups Nos
Total Score for Individual KPIs
102

--- PAGE 103 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
B TEAM KPI
B.1 450 new SHGs & 30 VOs Formed Nos
B.2 No. of BMMU received overall ‘A’  grade Nos
B.3 At least 95% Fund Utilization as per plan %
Total Score for Team KPIs
Authorized Signatory Date
Score Grade Score Grade
100% or A 75%- 90% C
>100%
91% - 99% B <75% D
103

--- PAGE 104 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Name of Staff
Designation
State/ District Posted PM -  Livelihoods
S No Performance Criteria Indicator Source Weight Given Target for the Year
A INDIVIDUAL KPI
A.1 Agencies providing technical support to SHGs performing as planned.
A.2 MCPs developed and rolled out in 200 villages Nos
A.3 Training modules for training of skill extension workers prepared Nos
A.4 Business Plans reviewed with BMMU Nos
A.5 No. of Producer Groups for whom backward and forward linkages were established. Nos
Total Score for Individual KPIs
B TEAM KPI
B.1 450 new SHGs & 30 VOs Formed Nos
B.2 No. of BMMU received overall ‘A’  grade Nos
B.3 At least 95% Fund Utilization as per plan %
Total Score for Team KPIs
Authorized Signatory Date
Score Grade Score Grade
100% or >100% A 75%- 90% C
91% - 99% B <75% D
104

--- PAGE 105 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Name of Staff
Designation
State/ District Posted SPM -  Microfinance
S No Performance Criteria Indicator Source Weight Given Target for the Year
A INDIVIDUAL KPI
A.1 6480 new SHGs formed Nos
A.2 Rs. 3.6 Cr released as First tranch of CIF (ICF) to 4500 SHGs %
A.3 Partnership established with 1  MFI on institutional support and Rs.10 Lakhs of disbursed as loans to SHGs Nos
A.4 Sensitization workshop with Bankers completed Nos
A.5 MOU with PNB and MBKGB signed
A.6 Study on Remittances completed
Total Score for Individual KPIs
B TEAM KPI
B.1 450 new SHGs & 30 VOs Formed Nos
B.2 No. of BMMU received overall ‘A’  grade Nos
B.3 At least 95% Fund Utilization as per plan %
Total Score for Team KPIs
Authorized Signatory Date
Score Grade Score Grade
100% or >100% A 75%- 90% C
91% - 99% B <75% D
105

--- PAGE 106 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Name of Staff
Designation
State/ District Posted PM -  Microfinance
S No Performance Criteria Indicator Source Weight
Given
Target 
for the 
Year
A INDIVIDUAL KPI
A.1 6480 new SHGs formed Nos
A.2 80% SHGs have 90% repayment or higher %
A.3 Training modules for SHGs developed Nos
A.4 200 Book keepers for VO identified and trained Nos
A.5 2 training programmes organised with SBI and PNB Nos
Total Score for Individual KPIs
B TEAM KPI
B.1 450 new SHGs & 30 VOs Formed Nos
B.2 No. of BMMU received overall ‘A’  grade Nos
B.3 At least 95% Fund Utilization as per plan %
Total Score for Team KPIs
Authorized Signatory Date
Score Grade Score Grade
100% or >100% A 75%- 90% C
91% - 99% B <75% D
106

--- PAGE 107 ---
Name of Staff 
Designation
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
State/ District Posted Finance Officer
S No Performance Criteria Indicator Source Weight Given Target for the Year
A INDIVIDUAL KPI
A.1 % of budget utilized as per plan %
A.2 % of DMMUs received timely funds %
A.3 Number of audit queries on which action taken and published within one month Nos.
A.4 % of timely clearances of external agency payments %
A.5 All Statutory statement prepared and submitted on time %
A.6 Quarterly internal audit conducted
A.7 Internal control systems established and practised at all levels
Total Score for Individual KPIs
B TEAM KPI
B.1 450 new SHGs & 30 VOs Formed Nos
B.2 No. of BMMUs received overall ‘A’  grade Nos
B.3 At least 95% Fund Utilization as per plan %
Total Score for Team KPIs
Authorized Signatory Date
Score Grade Score Grade
100% or >100% A 75%- 90% C
91% - 99% B <75% D
107

--- PAGE 108 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Name of Staff 
Designation
State/ District Posted Procurement Specialist
S No Performance Criteria Indicator Source Weight
Given
Target 
for the 
Year
A INDIVIDUAL KPI
A.1 Number of SMMU Service contracts with agencies provided as per approved procedure and as per time schedule
A.2 % of DMMU procurements (goods and services) handled as per approved procedure and as per time schedule
A.3 Training to all Key staff on Procurement Procedures at Project and Community level
Total Score for Individual KPIs
B TEAM KPI
B.1 450 new SHGs & 30 VOs Formed
B.2 No. of BMMU received overall ‘A’  grade
B.3 At least 95% Fund Utilization as per 
plan
Total Score for Team KPIs
Authorized Signatory Date
Score Grade Score Grade
100% or >100% A 75%- 90% C
91% - 99% B <75% D
108

--- PAGE 109 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Name of Staff 
Designation
State/ District Posted Team : Finance & Accounts
S No Performance Criteria Indicator Source Weight
Given
Target for 
the Year
A INDIVIDUAL KPI
A.1 Number of times salaries and indents processed and transferred to DMMUs as per schedule Nos.
A.2 % of payments cleared within three days of approval %
A.3 % of vouchers supported by supporting bills %
A.4 Books and Ledgers prepared accurately and on time Nos.
A.5 Budget Variance Report prepared and submitted
Total Score for Team KPIs
Authorized Signatory Date
Score Grade Score Grade
100% or >100% A 75%- 90% C
91% - 99% B <75% D
109

--- PAGE 110 ---
Name of Staff
Designation
State/ D istrict Posted Team : Adm inistration
S N o Perform ance C rite ria Ind icator Source W eight
Given
Target for 
the Y e a r
A IN D IV ID U A L  K P I
A.l All correspondences and files 
maintained as per procedures
A.2 Timely Logistics support provided to 
staff
A. 3 Optimum level of stocks maintained at 
all times
A.4 All Office Equipment maintained in 
good working condition
Total Score fo r Team K P Is
Authorized Signatory Date
Score Grade Score Grade
100% or A 75%- 90% C
>100%
91%-99% B <75% D
110

--- PAGE 111 ---
M eghalaya Slate  Rural livelih ood Society draft h r d Manual

--- PAGE 112 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Name of Staff 
Designation 
State/ District Posted 
District Project Coordinator
S No Performance Criteria Indicator Source Weight Given Target for the Year
A INDIVIDUAL KPI
A.1 District Level plan prepared and approved Nos.
A.2 District Level workshops held with external stakeholders %
A.3 Block Review Meetings conducted Nos.
A.4 % of planned CIG investment disbursed Nos.
A.5 No. of Block Teams receiving ‘A’  grade Nos.
Total Score for KPIs
Authorized Signatory Date
Score Grade Score Grade
100% or >100% A 75%- 90% C
91% - 99% B <75% D
111

--- PAGE 113 ---
Name of Staff
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Designation
State/ District Posted
District Training Team (DTC & DTO)
S No Performance Criteria Indicator Source Weight Given Target for the Year
A TEAM KPI
A.1 All staff at district level undergone orientation and training Nos.
A.2 All CRPs trained in *** modules %
A.3 All SHG Leaders trained in *** modules Nos.
A.4 Training needs identified and forwarded to SMMU for further capacity building of staff Nos.
A.5 No. of Block Teams receiving ‘A’  grade Nos.
Total Score for KPIs
Authorized Signatory Date
Score Grade Score Grade
100% or >100% A 75%- 90% C
91% - 99% B <75% D
112

--- PAGE 114 ---
Name of Staff
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Designation
State/ District Posted Block Project Manager
S No Performance Criteria Indicator Source Weight Given Target for the Year
A INDIVIDUAL KPI
A.1 Number of Villages saturated Nos.
A.2 Number of SHGs formed Nos.
A.3 Number of VOs formed Nos.
A.4 Number of SHGs linked to banks Nos.
A.5 Block Level Action Plan prepared Nos.
A.6 Overall Savings to Loan ratio achieved at 1:4 %
A.7 % of planned CIF disbursed %
A.8 Block Level workshops conducted Nos
A.9 Updated records timely submitted to DPMU %
A.10 Number of Block teams rated ‘A’ Nos
Total Score for KPIs
Authorized Signatory Date
Score Grade Score Grade
100% or >100% A 75%- 90% C
91% - 99% B <75% D
113

--- PAGE 115 ---
Name of Staff
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Designation
State/ District Posted Team : Block Team (AC & CC)
S No Performance Criteria Indicator Source Weight
Given
Target for 
the Year
A TEAM KPI
A.1 At least 90% groups following Panchsutras %
A.2 At least 80% groups account opened %
A.3 80% of VO formed in Project Villages %
A.4 60% VO accounts opened %
A.5 80% of MCPs prepared %
A.6 100% of SHGs records updated regularly Nos
A.7 % of SHGs which achieved Saving :  loan ratio at 1:4 within one year %
A.8 90% groups with 100% repayment rate %
Total Score for KPIs
Authorized Signatory Date
Score Grade Score Grade
100% or >100% A 75%- 90% C
91% - 99% B <75% D
114

--- PAGE 116 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Annexure 5B
Quality of VO/ Federation Promoted 
Name of Block Team:
Name of VO/ Federation: Village :
Name of Block: District :
S
No
Parameter of Evaluation Source of Data Score Awarded Remarks (if any)
1 Autonomy of VO/ Federation VO/ Federation meeting
Score Interpretation
5 There is absolutely no influence by the Project authorities. All the topics that have been taken up have been raised by the members and the decisions taken are those recommended by 
the members themselves.
4 Project authorities have suggested one or two topics for discussion that the VO/ Federation has taken up. The decisions on those topics have been made by the members themselves
3 VO/ Federation members have raised a few topics for discussions. The decisions have been made on the recommendation of Project Staff
2 Only those topics were discussed that were suggested by the Project Staff Decision were made on the basis of suggestions by Project authorities
1 Topics were raised by the Project Staff. There was almost negligible participation from the members in the discussions. The Decisions suggested by the Project Staff were accepted
115

--- PAGE 117 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
S No Parameter of Evaluation Source of Data Score Awarded Remarks (if any)
1 Effective Representation in VO/ Federation VO/ Federation meeting
Score Interpretation
5 Most of the points raised in the meetings referred to the interests of the SC/ST/ Vulnerable/ Differently-abled people of the village.
4 At least half the points raised in the meetings referred to the interests of the SC/ST/ Vulnerable/ Differently-abled people of the village.
3 One/two points raised in the meetings referred to the interests of the SC/ST/ Vulnerable/ Differently-abled people of the village.
2 No point related to the interests of SC/ST/ Vulnerable/ Differently-abled were taken up. However, the representatives from these sections were present in the 
meeting.
1 No point related to the interests of SC/ST/ Vulnerable/ Differently-abled were taken up. The Representatives from these sections were absent in the meeting.
116

--- PAGE 118 ---
Quality of SHG Promoted 
A. SHG Formation
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society draft hrd Manual
Name of SHG:
Name of VO/ Federation: Village :
Name of Block: District :
S No Parameter of Evaluation Source of Data Score Awarded Remarks (if any)
1 % of Poor (as per the Wealth Ranking) in the 
SHG
SHG Meeting/ Member Register
Score Interpretation
5 If more than 66% (2/3rd) are from the list
3 If more than 50% are from the list
1 If less than 50% are from the list
S No Parameter of 
Evaluation
Source of Data Score
Awarded
Remarks (if any)
1 Size of the SHG SHG Meeting/ Member Register
Score Interpretation
5 If size is between 13 & 17 (not more than 1  per family)
3 If size is between 10 -12 or 18-20 (not more than 1  per family)
1 If size is less than 10 or more than 20 (not more than 1  per family)
117

--- PAGE 119 ---
Quality of Producer Groups Promoted 
A. Producer Group Formation 
Name of Producer Groups:
Name of VO/ Federation: Village :
Name of Block: District :
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
S No Parameter of Evaluation Source of Data Score Awarded Remarks (if any)
1 % of Poor (as per the Wealth Ranking) in the Producer Group (PG) PG Meeting/ Member Register
Score Interpretation
5 If more than 66% (2/3rd) are from the list
3 If more than 50% are from the list
1 If less than 50% are from the list
S No Parameter of Evaluation Source of Data Score Awarded Remarks (if any)
1 % of women in PG PG Meeting/ Member Register
Score Interpretation
5 If more than 66% (2/3rd) are women
3 If more than 50% are women
1 If less than 50% are women
No Parameter of Evaluation Source of Data Score Awarded Remarks (if any)
1 Size of the PG PG Meeting/ Member Register
118

--- PAGE 120 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Score Interpretation
5 If size is between 10 & 20 (not more than 1  per family)
3 If size is between 6 & 10 (not more than 1  per family)
1 If size is less than 6 (or more than 20) (not more than 1  per family)
B. Sub Project Implementation
S No Parameter of Evaluation Source of Data Score
Awarded
Remarks (if any)
1 Sub Project identified after discussions on Livelihood 
Plan
PG Meeting/ Member Register. PG Meetings
Score Interpretation
5 Discussions on Livelihoods Plan recorded in the minutes book
3 Sub Project identified by the Group but not as per Livelihoods Plan
1 Sub Project suggested by Project Staff
S No Parameter of Evaluation Source of Data Score
Awarded
Remarks (if any)
5 PG was able to mobilize external funds (through Banks/ SHGs -  
other than Project Funds) for their sub Project
PG Meeting/ Member Register. PG Meetings
119

--- PAGE 121 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Score Interpretation
5 Amount mobilized from Commercial Banks
3 Amount mobilized through SHGs
1 No external funds mobilized
S
No
Parameter of Evaluation Source of Data Score
Awarded
Remarks (if any)
1 PG has evolved a system of Managing the sub Project, which 
includes fixing responsibilities for each member, and a system of 
Profit Sharing
PG Meeting/ Member Register. PG Meetings
Score Interpretation
5 A system of sharing responsibility and Profit Sharing has been developed 
among all members
3 A system of sharing responsibility has been developed among all members
1 Each member manages his/her own assets/ business
120

--- PAGE 122 ---
T O T A L  S C O R E  A W A R D E D  F O R  Producer Group : 
Consolidation Sheet fo r Q ualitative Assessment
Name B lo ck Unit D istrict
Members
SI Q uality Param eter Score by Team Members
No Member
1
Member
2
Member
3
Member
4
O verall
Score
1 Quality of SHGs Promoted
2 Quality of VO/ Federations 
Promoted
3 Quality of Producer Groups 
Promoted

--- PAGE 123 ---
Meghalaya Slate Rural livelihood Society draft hrd Manual
121

--- PAGE 124 ---
Annexure : 5C
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Staff Performance Assessment - Consolidation Sheet
Name of Staff
Designation 
Place of Posting
S No Performance Criteria Indicator Weightage Targets for the Year Achieved
A INDIVIDUAL KPI % 60
A.1
A.2
A.3
A.4
A.5
Total Individual KPI Score
B TEAM KPI 40
B.1
B.2
B.3
Total Team KPI Score
Overall Score
S No Performance Indicators Total Score Weightage Weighted Score
A INDIVIDUAL KPI 60
B Team KPI 40
OVERALL SCORE OF PERFORMANCE (%)
122

--- PAGE 125 ---
Areas of Growth Identified
Authorized Signatory Date
123

--- PAGE 126 ---
M eghalaya Slate  Rural livelih ood Society draft h r d Manual

--- PAGE 127 ---
Annexure 6
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Classification of Misconduct
(a) Acts of misconduct not considered grave
1  Unpunctuality
2 Leaving work places while on duty, without permission
3  Unauthorized use of vehicles belonging to the Projects
4 Overstaying leave
(b) Acts of grave misconduct
1  Misappropriation of the funds of the project, dishonesty and fraud
2 Theft of property belongs to the project.
3  Negligence resulting in serious loss to the Project
4 Discourtesy to communities.
5 Being under the influence of liquor whilst on duty
6 Insubordination to superior officers of the project.
7 Conviction of court or by other statutory body
8 Sabotage or willful damage to property of the Project
9 Taking or giving of bribes
10 Riotous or disorderly behavior
11 Misuse of property belonging to the project.
12 Abuse of authority
13 Committing of any criminal offence
14 Publication of any information without approval of proper authority
15 Bringing disrepute to the project
16 Dangerous driving of project vehicles resulting in death or injury to a person.
17 Misuse of authority, power or position for personal gain
18 Submission of false or forged certificates
The classifications made above are illustrative and not exhaustive. Further addition could be done by COO as and when required.
124

--- PAGE 128 ---
Annexure 7
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Delegation of Disciplinary Power
Authorized officer Subordinate officers Form of Punishment
Executive 
Committee/ SMD, 
MSRLS
All officers and staff except COO and officer on deputation Reprimand, suspension, stoppage of salary increment/pay increase not exceeding one year, A fine not 
exceeding one week’s pay, dismissal, termination of service contract, reduction in rank/ grade/ seniority
COO All officers and staff at State Project Management Level, All Officers and staff at 
District Project Implementation Unit Level, All Officers and staff at Block Teams 
Level
Warning, reprimand, suspension, stoppage of salary increment/pay increase not exceeding one year, A fine not 
exceeding one week’s pay. Dismissal, Termination of service contract, Reduction in rank/ grade/ seniority.
Dy COO All officers and staff at State Project Management Level, All Officers and staff at 
District Project Implementation Unit Level, All Officers and staff at Block Teams 
Level
Warning, reprimand. A fine not exceeding two day’s pay.
125

--- PAGE 129 ---
Defining entitlements under local travel
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Following table with description will replace the table given under para 7.2.8.3 of the HRD manual.
Category Entitlements
Category I Actual charges by Taxi fare for all types of Vehicle
Category II
Actual charges by Bus, Taxi or three-wheeler or fare of a single seat in a taxi, where availed, limited to Rs. 8.00 per Km in all cases. Or actual charges of Government approved 
prepaid Taxi/Auto services.
Category III
For regular Field Movement (within block) -  Charges as mentioned under provision of using motorcycle and bicycle for official purposes or actual cost of travel by available means 
of transportation such as bus, taxi, tanga, rickshaw etc. For charging cost of travel from a specific point of place, the station where staff is deputed would be considered. For Special 
Purposes viz. training, meeting with bankers etc. (within block) - Actual charges by Taxi or three wheeler or fare of a single seat in taxi, where availed, limited to Rs. 6.00 per Km 
in the latter case.
Category IV
Within 3 Kms -  actual upto a limit of Rs. 20/-Within 4 to 8 Kms -  actual upto a limit of Rs.40/- Within 9 to 15 Kms -Actual Fare of three wheelers/shared taxi, limited to Rs. 4/Km
Transfer of staff is defined as relocation exceeding a six month period in following ways.
1  Relocation of staff from one block to another
2 Relocation of staff from one district to another district/block of another district
3  Relocation of staff from SMMU to any of project districts or blocks
4 Relocation of staff from any of project districts or blocks to SPMU
5 Relocation of BMMU staff within block for project purposes will not be treated as transfer.
126

--- PAGE 130 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Freight & Packaging : The cost of relocating personal belongings would be reimbursed to the employee being transferred as per actual on production of bills, subject to a maximum of Rs. 2000 to 12,000 in 
respective cases.
The allowance and reimbursement of relocation cost during the transfer would be applicable as per details given in following table.
Freight and Packaging Charge Reimbursement
Transfer Status Transfer Allowance Joining Period after Transfer
Relocation of staff from one block to another No allowance Reimbursement of actual cost upto Rs. 2000 subject to production of bill 2 days from the date of transfer
Relocation of staff from one district to another district One month gross salary of 
the concerned staff
Reimbursement of actual cost upto Rs. 12000 subject to production of bill 7 days from the date of transfer
Relocation of staff from SMMU to any of project districts 
or blocks
One month gross salary of 
the concerned staff
Reimbursement of actual cost upto Rs. 12000 subject to production of bill 7 days from the date of transfer
Relocation of staff from any of project districts or blocks 
to SPMU
One month gross salary of 
the concerned staff
Reimbursement of actual cost upto Rs. 12000 subject to production of bill 7 days from the date of transfer
No allowances would be payable in case of honouring request for transfer from staff.
A staff on transfer shall join the new location of duty within specified working days (as mentioned in table given above) of the issue of transfer letter/ order. The specified days for joining will be granted as leave 
with pay and will not be accounted for in the staffs leave account. If staff joins immediately and doesn’t take leave, s/he will be entitled to avail this leave within a year.
127

--- PAGE 131 ---
Provision of Consultants
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Provisions for constituting panel and hiring services of consultants for project purposes
The Project Implementation Plan of NRLM AJEEVIKA envisages the constitution of a team of empanelled consultants for extending specific support to the project. Presently, the project is in upscaling phase. It is 
expected that project interventions are going to be increased many folds in the current financial year. Several partners and project stakeholders have now been associated with the project. They are also sharing various 
important responsibilities of project implementation. Now, it is being felt that project needs to have consultancy support for various thematic interventions of the project. Largely such support is required in following 
areas:-
Sl Thematic Areas Descriptions (Examples)
1 Microfinance
Strengthening liaison with banking institutions, fostering institutional linkage with them, dealing in insurance sector for establishing relationship with insurance companies, 
negotiating with them and extending technical support for rolling out of micro insurance for community.
2 Livelihoods Providing technical input for effective implementation of project interventions in dairy, aggregation of commodities, horticulture, agriculture, fishery, jobs and art and crafts sectors.
3 Institution Building
Extending help to design training materials, translation work, providing inputs to design capacity building interventions, extending field level support in demonstrating good practices 
of institutions building etc.
4
For Support in Core 
Project Operations
Hiring suitable consultant to provide support to critical managerial positions like BPM, DPM or Managers at district level for specific assignments.
5
Short term reviews for 
internal learning
Hiring suitable consultants for short term review of project interventions for internal learning.
128

--- PAGE 132 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
It is proposed that the consultant will be hired on the basis of
.  • Part time requirement (upto a maximum o f 150 days in a year)
.  • Full time requirement (Upto a maximum o f 11 months in a year)
The process of hiring the consultant will include following steps.
.  • Floating advertisement seeking EOI with full details of the consultants.
.  • Shortlisting of consultants on merit basis for different thematic areas by a committee constituted by COO.
.  • Freezing the panel of shortlisted candidates by COO 
.  • Inviting the consultant to extend services as and when requirement appears.
The empanelment of the consultants will be done on the basis o f their qualification, quality of experience in relevant field and their association with reputed institutions/agencies/departments. 
Accordingly their category is proposed to be decided as per following.
Sl Category Description
1 Category A 1
At least PG or higher degree with experience of more than 20 years in relevant field with reputed national and international level institutions/assignment. Below 65 yrs 
of Age
2 Category A 2
At least PG or higher degree with experience of more than 15 years in relevant field with reputed national or international level institutions/assignment. Below 65 yrs 
of Age
3 Category A 3 At least PG or higher degree with experience of more than 10 years in relevant field with reputed state or national level institutions/assignment. Below 65 yrs of Age
The experienced individual having lower than PG qualification may also be considered as per experience, quality and proven track record of previous work.
It is proposed that the panel once constituted will be refreshed again after two years through the process as mentioned above. For any mid course addition in panel, COO may be authorized to take decision. 
The consultants proposed to be hired may extend their services at all levels of the project. However, authority of hiring them will vested to COO only.
129

--- PAGE 133 ---
The remuneration and other benefits structure to consultants proposed to be hired will be as follows.
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Sl Category Remuneration Other benefits
1 Category A 1
For Part Term Requirement :  Upto Rs. 40,000
Reimbursement of to and fro travel expenses upto economy air fair, upto Rs. 750/day for use of local conveyance or 
personal vehicle for official purpose and stay upto limit prescribed for category II staff of MSRLS or as approved by COO 
on merit basis.
For Full Time Requirement: Upto a maximum of Rs. 
60, 000/- per month
2 Category A 2
For Part Term Requirement :  Upto Rs. 30,000
Reimbursement of to and fro travel expenses upto economy air fair, upto Rs. 750/day for use of local conveyance or 
personal vehicle for official purpose and stay upto limit prescribed for category II staff of MSRLS.
For Full Time Requirement: Upto a maximum of Rs. 
45,000 /- per month
3 Category A 3
For Part Term Requirement :  Upto Rs. 20,000 Reimbursement of to and fro travel expenses upto 2nd AC, upto Rs. 750/day for use of local conveyance or personal 
vehicle for official purpose and stay upto limit prescribed for category II staff of MSRLS.
For Full Time Requirement: Upto a maximum of Rs. 
35,000/ per month
130

--- PAGE 134 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
The vacancies would be filled keeping the reservation roster in mind.
For Training Officer For Area Coordinator
a. Chief Operating Officer a. Concerned SPM
b. SPM -  HRD b. SPM -  HRD/PM -HRD
c. SPM -  Capacity Building c. One invited staff from other District
d. One invited staff of category II 
/external expert
d. One invited SPM/External expert
131

--- PAGE 135 ---
Annexure A
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Eligibility criteria and salary package for BPM, AC, CC and Accountant at BMMU
Reporting
Line
Other Benefits
Sl Position Key Roles and Responsibility Eligibility Criteria Salary structure
Block Project Management Unit
1
Block
Project
Manager
(one in each
project
block)
S/he will be the team leader of BMMU managing a team of 
15- 20 staff. S/he will be responsible for planning and 
execution of project activities at block level. S/he will 
liaison with line Government departments, banking 
institutions, civil society organisations and other external 
agency for project purposes. S/he will responsible for 
nurturing block level federations and execute partership 
activities of the project. S/he will also responsible for 
managing Initial Capitalisation Fund (first tranche of CIF), 
community level training (village based scheduled 
nonresidential training programme) and cross learning 
activities within block. S/he will be overall in-charge of 
finance and administrative functions of BMMU and 
responsible for upkeeping of MIS as well as reporting.
Fresh post graduate dimploma or degree in social work, rural 
development, management, agriculture and allied from premier 
institute. Or Post graduate/graduate in any discipline with 
minimum 2/4 years relevant experience in managing social 
development activities preferebly SHG, Microfinance and 
livelihoods promotion. S/he should be proficient in working with 
MS office environment.
S/he will 
report to 
DPM
23000-29000
Child education 
allowance Rs. 300*2 
Child (max), Insurance 
Cover (Mediclaim and 
Group Accident) and 
Annual Performance Pay 
0-15% of basic.
2
Area
Coordinator
(1 in each
project
block)
S/he will be responsible for executing specialist function at 
block level and generic coordination of field based 
activities at cluster level. As a specialist s/he will be the 
nodal person for specific assignments which include Micro 
Planning, Bank Linakages, Community Institution 
Building, livelihood promotion and social development.
Graduate in any discipline with 2 years relevant experience 
preferbly in livelihoods and SHG programme, establishing bank 
linkages of community instituions, conducting training to them or 
fresh post graduate or P.G diploma in social work, rural 
development, management, agriculture and allied.
S/he will 
report to 
BPM
22000-28000
Child education 
allowance Rs. 200*2 
Child (max), Insurance 
Cover (Mediclaim and 
Group Accident) and 
Annual Performance Pay 
0-15% of basic.
132

--- PAGE 136 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
3
Community
Coordinator
(5 in each
project
blocK)
Community Coordinator will be based at village level and 
operate in 6-7 villages of a particular cluster in a block. 
S/he will be responsible for tragetting in the project, 
formation and nurturing of SHGs, basic training to them, 
managing operations of community support cadres, 
facilitating micro plan and bank linakages in SHGs, 
supervising CIF utilisation and conflict resolutions at 
community level.
Fresh graduate. Prior experience of working with SHG 
programme will be preferred.
S/he will 
report to 
Area
Coordinator
14000-18000
Child education 
allowance Rs. 200*2 
Child (max), Insurance 
Cover (Mediclaim and 
Group Accident) and 
Annual Performance Pay 
0-15% of basic.
4
Accountant
(1 in each
project
block)
S/he will be responsible for maintaining books of account 
at BMMU level and regularily updating them. S/he will 
also be repsonsible for providing all secretarial assistane to 
block staff and maintain all official records. s/he will also 
be responsible for channeling upward and backward 
official communication.
Graduate in Commerce with minimum 1  year relevant experience 
of book keeping, accounts related job and secretarial assistance 
with reputed institutions, Government programmes/project or 
NGOs. Knowledge of working on computer and operating Tally 
Software will be desirable.
S/he will 
report to 
BPM
14000-20000
Child education 
allowance Rs. 200*2 
Child (max), Insurance 
Cover (Mediclaim and 
Group Accident) and 
Annual Performance Pay 
0-15% of basic.
5
Office
Assistant (1
in each
project
block)
S/he will be responsible for extending all secreterial 
assistance to staff there with BMMU. Largely s/he will be 
looking after all communication, office record keeping, 
compiling of project information, maintaining records 
related with programmatic, administrative and HRD affairs 
and acting as nodal person for channeling communication 
to/from BMMU.
Graduate in any discipline with minimum 1  year relevant 
experience of office/programme assistant work with reputed 
institutions, Government programmes/Project or NGOs. 
Knowledge of working on computer in MS office environment 
will be desirable.
S/he will 
report to 
BPM
14000-18000
Child education 
allowance Rs. 200*2 
Child (max), Insurance 
Cover (Mediclaim and 
Group Accident) and 
Annual Performance Pay 
0-15% of basic.
133

--- PAGE 137 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Annexure B
Eligibility criteria for District Project Manager
Sl Position
Salary structure
Key Roles and Responsibility Eligibility Criteria Reporting Proposed monthly Other Benefits
Line pay
District Project Implementation Unit
1
District
Project
Manager
(1 in each
project
district)
S/he will be the overall project in-charge and team leader at district level. s/he will 
be responsible for planning, execution and monitoring of all project activities at 
distrcit level. S/he will be supervising the functioning of block units in the district 
and guide them to function uniformally and deliver quality results. S/he will be 
responsible to manage partnership, ensure rolling out of organisational system (HR, 
MIS, Admin, Fin etc.) all acorss the district and ensuring reporting. S/he will be 
responsible for ensuring fund flow and its effective utilisation by project units 
operational in the district. S/he will act as nodal person at distrcit level for learning 
and knowledge management in the project. S/he will also be responsible for 
managing of CIF for larger livelihoods and social development activities. As team 
leader at distrcit level, s/he will be ensuring improvement of service delivery and 
quality control in project activities across the district. S/he will also responsible for 
nurturing the block level federations in the district.
For Government Officials -Individuals from Meghalaya 
Administrative Services with minimum 5 years of relevant 
experience or individuals from other government line 
department/banking institution with minimum 5 years of 
relevant experience. For candidates from open market -PG 
degree/diploma in management, social work, rural 
development, agriculture and allied from premier 
institutes/any other institute with minimum 5/7 years 
experience of successfully leading large and 
multidiciplinary team as well as executing livelihoods, 
SHGs and MF programmes with demonstrated leadership 
skills. S/he should be a team player and have faith in 
consultative and democratic team functioning. S/he should 
be proficient in working with MS office environment.
Reporting 
to COO
29000-41000
Child education 
allowance Rs. 500*2 
Child (max), Insurance 
Cover (Mediclaim and 
Group Accident) and 
Annual Performance 
Pay 015% of basic.
Premier Institute includes reputed institutions with national lable selection process such as IIT, IIM, IRMA, NIRD, TISS, XISS, IIFM, Delhi School of Social Work, XIMB, XIDAS, MANAGE, KSRM, IIRM 
etc.
134

--- PAGE 138 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Eligibility criteria for Training Manager and Training Officer
Salary structure
Other
Sl Position Key Roles and Responsibility Eligibility Criteria Reporting Proposed monthly
Benefits
Line pay
District Project Implementation Unit
S/he will be responsible for managing training for BMMU staff and 
community strcuture viz. CM, CRP, BK. S/he will be responsible for Child
preparing annual training programme of the distrcit training cell and For Government Officials -individuals from government education
ensure its timely and effective execution. S/he will be the nodal person line department/banking institution with minimum 3 years allowance
for budgeting for training programme of distrcit training cell and of relevant experience. For candidates from open market - Rs. 300*2
Training
Manager
allocating jobs to training resource pool in all training programmes PG degree/diploma in management, social work, rural Child (max),
organised by the district training cell. S/he will ensure smooth flow of development, agriculture and allied from premier Insurance
trining fund at distrcit level and its proper utilisation. S/he will institutes/any other institute with minimum 3/5 years Reporting Cover
2 (1 in each 23000-27000
project
district)
responsible for quality delivery of training organised by training cell experience of successfully managing training and capacity to DPM (Mediclaim
across the distrcit. S/he will be authorised to monitor and review all building events in livelihoods, MF, SHGs programmes. and Group
training and capacity building programme organisaed by the distrcit The person should have sound understanding of Accident)
training cell and assist DPC in planning project activities accordingly. participatory training methodology and skills of trainer. and Annual
S/he will be the nodal person at distrcit level for case study S/he should be proficient in working with MS office Performance
development and cross learning. S/he will be also responsible for environment. Pay 015%
identifying district level external resource pool establish relationship 
with them. S/he will be responsible to ensure
of basic.
135

--- PAGE 139 ---
Meghalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
S/he will be responsible for executing all training programmes and Fresh post graduate diploma or degree in social work, rural Child
capacity building events organised by distrcit training cell with the development, management, agriculture and allied from education
help of training resource pool. S/he will act as trainer to demonstrate premier institute. Or Post graduate/graduate in any allowance
effective trainign techniques to the resource pool and regularity review discipline with minimum 1/3 years relevant experience in Rs. 300*2
Training 
Officer (3
in each
project
district)
the training processes towards improving its quality. S/he will be conducting training programme related to SHG promotion, Child (max),
responsible for keeping quality documentation of all training as well as Instituions building and livelihoods related activities. The Reporting Insurance
3
capacity building events and developing relevant case studies for 
internal learning. S/he will be responsible for ensuring all logistic
person should have knowledge of training need assessment 
and participatory trining methodology. S/he should have
to
Training
21000-25000
Cover
(Mediclaim
arrangement and coordinating other training related jobs affecting its also training skills. S/he should be proficient in working Manager and Group
smooth functioning. S/he will responsible for mentoring internal with MS office environment. Accident)
resource pool to deliver quality service and regularily review their and Annual
performance. S/he will also be responsible for accredition of internal Performance
resource pool jointly with Training Manager. Pay 015%
of basic.
Premier Institute includes reputed institutions with national lable selection process such as IIT, IIM, IRMA, NIRD,TISS, XISS, IIFM, Delhi School of Social Work, XIMB, XIDAS, MANAGE, KSRM, IIRM 
etc.
136

--- PAGE 140 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Eligibility criteria and salary package at DMMU.
Sl Position
Eligibility Criteria Salary structure
Other
Benefits
Key Roles and Responsibility Reporting
Line
Proposed monthly 
pay
District Project Implementation Unit
4
Finance 
Manager (1
in each
project
district)
S/he will be responsible for ensuring rolling 
out of financial and administrative system in 
all BMMU units and DMMU of the district. 
S/he will be responsible for managing CIF 
flow within he project in accordnace with 
system laid down. s/he will be responsible for 
ensuring IFR in time, coordination with 
internal auditors and other financial 
consultants of the project and guiding as well 
as training BMMU/DMMU accountants in 
proper book keeping & accounting. S/he 
should also be responsible for advising DPM 
in following financial prudent norms and 
ensuring fiduciary discipline at BMMU level. 
S/he will also be responsible for looking after 
regular administrative affairs across the 
district.
S/he should be CA/ICWAI/ MBA (finance) or CA 
(inter), ICWAI(inter) or PG in commerce with 3 years 
experience in financial management, budgeting, 
developing financial system in Government/semi 
government agency, banking institutions, reputed 
financial firms or non government organisations. 
Government officials from Meghalaya Finance Service 
with minimum 5 year of relevant experience will also 
be eligible for the position. S/he should be proficient in 
working with MS office environment.
Reporting 
to DPM / 
COO
29000-41000
Child 
education 
allowance 
Rs. 300*2 
Child (max), 
Insurance 
Cover 
(Mediclaim 
and Group 
Accident) 
and Annual 
Performance 
Pay 015% 
of basic.
137

--- PAGE 141 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Manager -
Livelihoods Child
(1 in each S/he will be responsible for executing as well education
project as managing partnership activities of the Fresh post graduate dimploma or degree in social work, allowance
district), project at distrcit level. S/he will be also a rural development, management, agriculture and allied Rs. 300*2
Manager - expert of specific livelihoods microfinance or from premier institute. Or Post graduate/graduate in Child (max),
Microfinance social development interventions. S/he will any discipline with minimum 2/4 years relevant Insurance
5
(1 in each 
project
assit DPC in planning all livelihoods or 
microfinance or social development activities
experience in managing specific livelihoods (both farm 
and non farm, which will be specific to the requirement
Reporting 
to DPM
23000-27000
Cover
(Mediclaim
district) and in the district. S/he will be also working as of the district) or microfinance or social development and Group
Manager - resource support available to BMMU units intervention preferably in SHG programme. S/he Accident)
Social for executing partnership based activities or should be proficient in working with MS office and Annual
Development any other livelihoods/social development environment. Performance
(1 in each programme. Pay 015%
project of basic.
district)
138

--- PAGE 142 ---
Annexure- H
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Eligibility criteria for PM position at SMMU
Sl Position Key Roles and Responsibility Eligibility Criteria Salary structure
Other
Benefits
Reporting
Line
Proposed monthly pay
1
SPM -
Marketing
and
Innovation
(1 at SMMU 
level)
S/he will be responsible for developing 
value chain for undertaking related 
intervention and facilitate in improving 
quality of the commodities / products, 
marketing as well as selling of 
aggregation of produce / commodities 
produced from both farm and off farm 
sectors / sub-sectors in the surrounding 
area or in the Mandi or to the big trader 
through the BMMU teams. S/he will also 
have to undertake extensive field visit to 
identify social innovations to improve 
livelihoods through advertisement, 
scouting and assist the SPM-Livelihoods 
in validating & documenting them for 
organizing the annual Meghalaya  
Innovation Forum.
S/he should be a Post Graduate Diploma or Degree in 
Rural Development / Management / Business 
Management / Business Administration / Social Work 
from a premier institute. S/he should have at least 10 
years of relevant work experience in commodity 
trading / marketing of farm & off farm produce, 
Agribusiness / Agricultural marketing, different models 
of rural development for improving livelihoods in the 
rural areas. Working with Community based 
Organizations such as Self Help Groups will be 
preferred. S/he should be proficient in working with 
MS office environment.
Reporting 
to SPM - 
Livelihoods
36000-45000
Child
education
allowance
Rs. 300*2
Child (max),
Insurance
Cover
(Mediclaim
and Group
Accident)
and Annual
Performance
Pay 015% of
basic.
139

--- PAGE 143 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
2
SPM -  Staff 
learning and 
Performance 
Management
(1 at SPMU 
level)
S/he will be responsible for identifying 
learning requirement of the project staff 
and plan as well as execute 
training/exposure/interactive learning 
events accordingly. S/he should also be 
responsible for counselling and improving 
understanding of HRD process among 
project staff. S/he will be responsible for 
managing performance evaluation and 
motivational reward system for the staff. 
S/he should be responsible for 
smoothening greivance redressal process 
for the project staff and document as well 
as dicsseminate HR learning process 
within organisation. S/he will also be 
responsible for executing partnership 
made for staff learning and capacity 
enhancement under HRD domain.
S/he should be a Post Graduate Diploma or Degree in 
HRD/ Management / Social Work/ Rural Development 
from a premier institute. S/he should have at least 5  
years of relevant work experience with development 
project/reputed companies with specific 
HRD/organiational development issues. S/he should 
have expereince of managing multidisciplinary team. 
S/he should have good communication skill and be a 
team player having faith in consultative and democratic 
team functioning. S/he should be proficient in working 
with MS office environment.
Reporting 
to SPM 
HRD
36000-45000
Child
education
allowance
Rs. 300*2
Child (max),
Insurance
Cover
(Mediclaim
and Group
Accident)
and Annual
Performance
Pay 015% of
basic.
140

--- PAGE 144 ---
Meahalaya State Rural livelihood Society -draft hrd Manual
Eligibility criteria and salary package for Financial Accounts Officer at DMMU.
Sl Position
Eligibility Criteria Salary structure
Other
Benefits
Key Roles and Responsibility Reporting
Line
Proposed monthly 
pay
District Project Implementation Unit
4
Financial 
Accounts 
Officer( 1  
post)
S/he will be responsible for ensuring 
rolling out of financial and administrative 
system. S/he will be responsible for 
managing CIF flow within he project in 
accordnace with system laid down. s/he 
will be responsible for ensuring IFR in 
time, coordination with internal auditors 
and other financial consultants of the 
project and guiding as well as training 
BMMU/DMMU Finance Manager, 
accountants in proper book keeping & 
accounting. S/he should also be 
responsible for advising DPM in 
following financial prudent norms and 
ensuring fiduciary discipline at BMMU 
level. S/he will also be responsible for 
looking after regular administrative 
affairs across the district.
S/he should be CA/ICWAI/ MBA (finance) or CA 
(inter), ICWAI(inter) or PG in commerce with 3 years 
experience in financial management, budgeting, 
developing financial system in Government/semi 
government agency, banking institutions, reputed 
financial firms or non government organisations. 
Government officials from Meghalaya Finance Service 
with minimum 10 year of relevant experience will also 
be eligible for the position. S/he should be proficient in 
working with MS office environment.
Reporting 
to COO
41000-45000
Child 
education 
allowance 
Rs. 300*2 
Child (max), 
Insurance 
Cover 
(Mediclaim 
and Group 
Accident) 
and Annual 
Performance 
Pay 015% 
of basic.
141