--- PAGE 1 ---
MyGov TALENT DEVELOPMENT POLICY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Objectives 
MyGov recognizes the importance of effective learning and development for nurturing 
talent so that MyGov can  achieve its objective of citizen engagement  and 
participative governance. 
 
Team members  of MyGov  will have access to opportunities  for learning and 
development to  enable them to perform to the best of their ability,  in order to help 
MyGov to achieve its objectives in both the short and longer term. 
 
2. Scope 
 
The policy is inclusive and covers all team members  of MyGov – whether on contract 
through DIC and Deputation excluding part-time, third -party hires, invoiced 
consultants. 
 
3. Eligibility 
 
A team member will be  eligible for a training program/course/certification after 
successful completion of 8 months with the organization. 
 
The Program /course/certification has to be relevant to his/her area of work, which 
has to be approved by the reporting Function Head and CEO, MyGov 
 
4. Criteria for Learning Program Selection 
 
The following criteria may be kept in mind while selecting a program or course: 
 
a. Relevance to Digital Art 
b. Relevance to role 
c. Social Media Marketing 
d. Technology associated with social media platforms and web sites  
e. Plans for sharing knowledge gained with other Co Employees 
f. Other areas with the approval of CEO, MyGov 
 
 
 
 
Ref No:                      E-3079290/MG/19/2021-MyGov 
Version:                     1.1 
Date of Issue:            29-Jan-2024 
Effective Date:           29-Jan-2024 
Document Owner:      Director, MyGov  
Approved by:             CEO, MyGov

--- PAGE 2 ---
Learning should be in  alignment to goals of MyGov . The resource is expected to 
commit t hat the pursuit of the program  will in no way adversely impact his/her 
business commitments in the organization  and the concerned team lead should 
recommend the course after being satisfied of the same.  
 
5. Application and Enrolment 
 
5.1. At a given point in time, a resource is eli gible to enroll in one program  in 
a calendar year and 2 programs in 1 Contract Period if the contract period 
exceeds 18 months. 
 
5.2. Team Member must send learning request to her/his manager, who  
evaluates the proposal and then forwards the request to MyGov HR 
through the concerned Function Head for the issue of Letter of Approval 
as at Annexure l. 
 
5.3. The recommending manager may forward the recommendations to 
MyGov HR after assessing and recording the suitability and relevance of 
the program to the resource’s area of operation, aspirations and current 
business needs. 
  
5.4. HR will process the request within the framework of this policy, in 
consideration of performance data, continuity of the contract, inputs of the 
recommending manager and  budget availability within 2 weeks of 
getting the request. 
 
5.5. If the request of the resource is approved by the organization, it is 
communicated to the employee (Format at Annexure-I). 
 
5.6. All proposals for learning and talent development will be approved by CEO, 
MyGov for sponsorship. 
 
6. Financial Support by MyGov 
 
6.1. The financial support provided to a resource is limited to the tuition and 
exam fee and does not cover any other expenses including books, travel 
etc. In exception cases, travel  
 
fee can be reimbursed with the approval of CEO, MyGov 
 
6.2. Up to  75% of the course fee or INR 25,000 ( Twenty-Five Thousand 
Rupees) whichever is lower will be reimbursed to the team member across 
all levels in the organization.

--- PAGE 3 ---
7. Mode of Payment 
 
The resource is eligible for rei mbursement of training/Program  fee 
incurred only on successful completion of the approved Program, after  all 
the fee receipts are shared.  Proof of completion of the 
program/course/certification must also be shared.  The reimbursement will 
be credited to the bank account of the resource. 
 
8. Non-Disclosure Agreement 
 
The organization ’s approval to pursue the program  will carry with it an 
obligation on behalf of the resource to accept a Non -Disclosure Clause 
whereby the use of information/data/references/documents, which are not 
in the public domain will not be used by him/her for any project/thesis 
undertaken as part of the pursuit. 
 
9. Leave to pursue the learning program 
 
9.1. For a course/certification from her/his area of work & approved by MyGov  
management, a team member can avail up to  5 days of leave for a 
particular program /course in 1 year of contract. These leaves could be in 
continuation or spread over 1 year which would be counted as official working 
days. The  leaves need to be approved by immediate manager and should 
be in line with the prevailing policy.  
9.2. Any course requirement of more than 5 days needs to be  accounted from 
his/her personal leave balance and will be accounted for from leave 
balance. If there aren’t adequate leaves (CL, followed by EL) in the 
resource’s credit, then days of absence for the course will be treated 
as Leave Without Pay. 
9.3. For a course/certification  not from his area of work an employee has to 
account for leave from his personal leave balance. 
 
10.  Course Completion 
 
The resource will inform the immediate manager/HR on successful completion of the 
program/course/certification . 
 
11. Discontinuation of the learning program 
 
In case the resource discontinues pursuit of the program  or fails to qualify,  he/she would 
not be eligible for the reimbursement of fee or any other cost related to 
training/program/certification, even if it was approved by MyGov.

--- PAGE 4 ---
12. Reciprocal Expectations 
 
If an employee leaves the organization/govt. within 1year of achieving the qualification, 
then he/she will be expected to repay fee reimbursed by MyGov for the course/certification 
fee. 
 
13. Taxability of Support 
 
The financial support will be considered as a perk and taxed as per the lncome Tax Act. 
 
14. Exceptions/Modifications 
Any exceptions to this policy will require approval of CEO, MyGov.

--- PAGE 5 ---
Annexure I 
Letter of Approval 
 
(Resource Name)  
(Email Id) 
Mobile: ( .......................  ) 
 
Dear (First Name) 
 
We are pleased to approve your pursuit of <Course> at <Institute Name>, based on your 
request. (Letter Enclosed) 
 
We are happy to make this investment and expect in return that you will use the knowledge to 
benefit the organization. In line with the Learning and Development Policy of MyGov, the financial 
support is subject to the following terms: 
 
Financial Support by MyGov will be limited to the tuition and Exam fee and not cover 
any other expenses including books, transportation etc. It will be equivalent to 75% 
of the course fees or INR 25,000 whichever is less.  
 
Please note the other terms and conditions given below: 
 
(a) You may choose to accept one-time reimbursement of tuition fee expenses on successful  
completion of the Program on submission of relevant receipts and course completion 
certificate. 
(b)  You may avail a maximum of 5 leave balance for your course/training which would be 
considered as Official working days. For any leaves  beyond that, you have  to utilize  your 
Casual/Earned leave balance. 
(c) In case you discontinue pursuit of the Program  or fail to qualify the program /certification 
you are expected to inform MyGov HR within five working days. In such scenario there will 
no reimbursement of any kind related to Program/Course 
(d)  In case  you leave the organization within 1year from the date of completion of 
Program/Course, you are expected to pay back the full amount reimbursed to you. In 
case of default, the organization will be within its rights to take legal recourse for recovery. 
(e)  You will not use any information/data/references/documents, from  the organization, 
which are not in the public domain for any project/thesis undertaken as part of the 
programme. 
 
If the above terms are acceptable to you, please sign this letter in acceptance of the same. 
 
We wish you a fruitful learning experience.