--- PAGE 1 ---
Page 1 of 5 
     
 
MyGov INTERNSHIP PROGRAM (MGIP) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Introduction:  
MyGov is the Government of India’s digital media enabler  citizen 
engagement platform. Headquartered in New Delhi, it is a n independent 
business division under Digital India corporation, a  Section 25 Company 
floated by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, 
Government of India. MyGov was established in 2014 and has quickly grown 
in the mandates it executes, the people it employs and the accountability it 
bears. MyGov has ta ken in its fold a wide range of talent from different 
fields to deliver results and as it grows will require more. The organization 
has inducted interns in the past and continues to be a platform for intense 
internships. 
 
2. Purpose of Internship Policy:  
An internship in MyGov affords an opportunity for a student  (pursuing 
graduation/post-graduation) or recently qualified youngster to gain hands-
on experience with the MyGov team on MyGov’s work. Working deep within 
the MyGov ecosystem, an Intern is held up to the same measure of 
assessment that an employee is and is expected to deliver results from the 
very first day. Interns are assigned to a mentor, usually someone from the 
senior leadership team at MyGov and stays connected to the entire team 
through various channels. Internships are MyGov’s way of contributing to 
the development and upskilling of young talent in the country. They also 
help MyGov access talent for short-term project requirements. The MyGov 
internship program will always revolve around making business sense at all 
times and deliver demonstrated value to the organization. This policy will 
help MyGov systematically access internship resources for deployment in 
the organization. 
 
3. Areas of Internship:  
MyGov’s interns come from a variety of backgrounds and bring multiple 
skills to the team. Some of the areas in which MyGov inducts interns are: 
 
a) Graphic Designing; 
b) Search Engine Optimization; 
c) Data Science 
d) Research Design 
Ref No:                      E-3079290/MG/19/2021-MyGov 
Version:                     1.2 
Date of Issue:            03-Dec-2024 
Effective Date:           03-Dec-2024 
Document Owner:      Director, MyGov  
Approved by:             CEO, MyGov

--- PAGE 2 ---
Page 2 of 5 
     
e) Social Media Marketing 
f) UX professionals 
g) Data Analytics 
h) Social Research Methodologies 
i) Artificial Intelligence applications 
j) Human Resource Information Systems 
k) Public Policy 
l) Content Creation 
 
4. Who can be a MyGov Intern:  
Our interns are usually students (pursuing graduation/post-graduation) in 
advanced courses related to the areas stated above or recently qualified 
from a university. They are usually under 25 years of age. MyGov is an 
inclusive workplace that values diversity, so applications are considered 
irrespective of candidate origins.  Selection as intern will require an 
assessment by MyGov which may consist of a written examination or an 
interview or both. 
 
5. Duration of Internship: 
Internships are offered for two months and can be extended by a month at 
most. An Intern will be expected to file a report every month in the 
prescribed format (at Annexure A)  regarding progress in her/his learning 
and delivery. The report is filed with the mentor, with a copy to Human 
Resources function. At the end of the int ernship, the Intern will make a 
presentation to the leadership team at MyGov regarding her/his experience 
as an intern. The following are expected to be a part of that presentation: 
a) Intern profile and area of interest; 
b) Description of work assigned during internship; 
c) Output and contribution to the function during the internship; 
d) Main learning from the internship and how it will be useful for the future; 
e) Suggestions to improve MyGov products and processes, if any 
f) Acknowledgements 
 
6. Evaluation and Certification:  
Basis the Internship work as evaluated by the mentor, monthly reports and 
presentation, the leadership panel will make recommendations that will be 
shared with the intern. A certificate of completion of Internship will then be 
issued to the Intern from MyGov. Usually, the certificate is issued within a 
fortnight of completion of internship presentation. An intern becomes 
eligible for a certificate only after completing two months of internship and 
upon the satisfaction of the mentor. No cert ificate is issued if the final 
presentation is not made to the leadership team  and documentary 
requirements of the internship are incomplete. 
 
 
 
 
7. Payment during Internship:

--- PAGE 3 ---
Page 3 of 5 
     
MyGov reserves the right to evaluate the type of Internship (Paid/Unpaid) 
case to case basis. In the case of paid internship, MyGov interns are paid 
INR 10,000 (INR Ten Thousand only) for every month of internship as per 
payroll cycle followed in MyGov.  
 
8. How to apply for Internships:  
Recruitment for MyGov vacancies is almost exclusively through the MyGov 
Careers tab on the MyGov.in portal. Applications for internships are 
accepted throughout the year, but placements will be made depending upon 
organizational need, budgetary provisions and identification of mentors. 
Applicants are requested to fill their details in the Career tab and upload 
their CV, clearly specifying their area of interest. Applicants are expected 
to have read this policy document closely before applying for the program. 
Occasionally, MyGov might select interns from campuses depending upon 
requirement in which case institutional internship duration will be adhered 
to. In case of any difficulty in making the online upload of application, please 
write to intern@mygov.in with your application and Resume. Please specify 
your area of interest to enable us to take a decision when the occasion 
arises.  
 
9. Post-Internship:  
MyGov reserves the right to make an offer who have shown exemplary 
commitment, energy and output in their work with us, but an internship 
with MyGov is not a guarantee for employment in the  organization. We 
expect our interns to always be alumni of MyGov and car ry that flag high 
wherever they go. 
 
10. Discipline and Conduct:  
Conduct rules of MyGov will apply to all interns during their internship with 
us. Additionally, interns are expected to maintain complete confidentiality 
about the products, processes and people practices in MyGov. They will not 
divulge organizational secrets to which they may become privy during their 
work and neither will they be part of any communication that shows MyGov 
in poor light, for whatever purpose, after their internship is over. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEXURE 1

--- PAGE 4 ---
Page 4 of 5 
     
FORMAT FOR MONTHLY INTERNSHIP REPORT 
TO BE FILED WITH MENTOR AND HR VIA EMAIL 
Name: 
Educational Institution (if currently a student) 
Name of Mentor: 
Report for the period from…………………………………… (start date) 
to…………………………………………. 
Sl. 
No. 
Work Assigned Status of Execution Key Learning 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
 
Self-Improvement Areas identified in the month and plan of action to eliminate 
them: 
How can the organization further assist you during the internship: 
 
 
Signature of the Internee: 
 
Signature of the mentor: 
Date:  
Place: 
 
 
 
 
ANNEXURE 2

--- PAGE 5 ---
Page 5 of 5 
     
Definition of content for the final presentation to be made by an Intern to the 
MyGov leadership team in order to qualify for Certificate of Internship from the 
organization:  
g) Intern profile and area of interest; 
h) Description of work assigned during internship; 
i) Output and contribution to the function during the internship; 
j) Main learning from the internship and how it will be useful for the future; 
k) Suggestions to improve MyGov products and processes, if any 
l) Acknowledgements 
An internship presentation is not e xpected to exceed 20 minutes. Presentations 
will be followed by questions for the intern from those present at the event.  
 
PLEASE PRINT THIS DOCUMENT AND SIGN EVERY PAGE AND RETURN TO 
THE ORGANIZATION BEFORE THE START OF YOUR INTERNSHIP, IF YOU 
ARE SELECTED BY MYGOV.